DocBook TC Minutes, 06/07 Dec 1999                           
                                           Summary            
                                           06 December        
                                           07 December        
Summary                                                       
                                                              
These notes summarize the DocBook Technical Committee (TC)    
meeting that took place in Philladelphia on 06 and 07 Dec     
1999 as part of the OASIS meetings colocated with XML/MT'99.  
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
06 December                                                   
                                                              
Present                                                       
                                                              
  o Eve Maler                                                 
                                                              
  o Michael Sabrio                                            
                                                              
  o Terry Allen                                               
                                                              
  o Norman Walsh                                              
                                                              
  o Eduardo Gutentag                                          
                                                              
  o Sunthar Visuvalingam, InformIT, Pearson Education         
                                                              
Agenda                                                        
                                                              
  o Review and approve docbook 4.0 changes                    
                                                              
  o start work on docbook 5.0 - xmlifications                 
                                                              
  o review status of docbookx and its relationship to above   
                                                              
  o discuss docbook as xml schema                             
                                                              
RFE's for 4.0                                                 
                                                              
Issue 70: postponed for the 5.0 discussion                    
                                                              
Issue 93- Add markup for forms: since we don't have design    
for it, Norm proposed to leave it for 5.0 - the candidates    
would be IETMs, HTML, but really, realistically, only HTML is 
a candidate. At issue is whether to use namespaces.           
                                                              
Issue 95 - Extend FuncSynopsis for modern programming         
languages: Norm has a proposal from some time ago; this was   
examined as to whether it is sufficient enough for Java, C++  
and other object oriented languages. It was stated that the   
goal is not to model code. Norm proposed to clean it up,      
publish it once again to the list, alert people at xml.dev as 
to what is happening at the list, and then plug it in 4.0 --  
the proposal was accepted.                                    
                                                              
Isuee 96 - Extend inlines for modern programming languages:   
We need a list - we could start with a few of the ones in 95  
- methodname, exceptionname, interfacename. Norm will         
document the rationale.                                       
                                                              
Issue 98 - Reorganize parameter entities: we're leaving this  
open; it may become moot if/when we move to schemas, we would 
do the work there, so why do it now.                          
                                                              
Issue 99 - Rework MsgSet: it's a mess, there are too many     
subelements, Terry proposed a radical simplification that     
would be backwards incompatible so would have to be in 5.0    
                                                              
Sunthar proposed an alternate to msgset. Eve expanded on      
this: simple msg entry,with msgtext with option               
attrs(level,audience, origin, class [with a default of main]) 
followed by explan.                                           
                                                              
We will have parallel construction with SimpleMessageEntry,   
which since it is not incompatible can go in 4.0 - will be    
sent to the list for input. Question: should the attrs be     
added to mssgentry or not? There is no problem in putting the 
attrs there, but we should shift to a linking model, so class 
will not be there for now, only level, audience and origin as 
CDATA attrs of simplemessageentry.                            
                                                              
Issue 100 - Keep 'cooked' and 'raw' bibliographic metadata    
separated: the RFE contains a proposal that solves the        
problem, in a backwards incompatible manner, so it should be  
incorporated in 5.0 - except as point 3. Norm will eliminate  
point three from the RFE, since there is no proposal in it.   
                                                              
Issue 102 - There are name case inconsistencies in the        
DocBook DTD: accepted.                                        
                                                              
Issue 103 - Extend Revision to allow longer descriptions:     
accepted - Norm will decide what's the best content model for 
RevDescription.                                               
                                                              
Issue 104 - add specification class attribute value for       
Article: yes, it will be added.                               
                                                              
Issue 105 - Add notation for PNG graphics: we will add PNG    
notation.                                                     
                                                              
Issue 106 - *.content PEs in wrong place in dbpool.mod: the   
correct solution is to blow away all of them, since many are  
used in just one place, so they are pointless.                
                                                              
Issue 107 - <qandaentry> disallows multiple phrasings of a    
question and answer: Rejected, multiple questions are not     
good, multiple answers are possible.                          
                                                              
Issue 108 - Content model disallows <note> in <answer>:       
Accepted. It was not seen as a need originally, but it is now 
obviously needed.                                             
                                                              
Issue 109 - Add FPI to content of dbgenent.mod: accepted.     
                                                              
Issue 110 - Allow revhistory in QandASet: We will add         
revhistory to QandAEntry (not Set).                           
                                                              
Issue 111 - Support for the Euro symbol: will be added &euro; 
as SDATA [ euro ] -- will be removed in an appropriate entity 
set.                                                          
                                                              
Issue 112 - AckNo ought to be a block not an inline!:         
rejected, it's supposed to be small.                          
                                                              
Another agenda item:                                          
                                                              
-- We will produce two versions of 4.0 asap. They will be as  
nearly identical as possible, one will be xml compliant and   
the other will be the traditional sgml dtd. There will be     
only one version of docbook 5.0 and it will be both xml and   
smgl compliant; this will be accomplished by making the dtd   
looser from an xml point of view and by not using dtd xml     
extensions. The tc has also agreed that it will investigate   
and produce a schema version of docbook.                      
                                                              
The issue of the status of docbookx becomes moot, because     
Norm will withdraw it as soon as v4.0 comes out.              
                                                              
A list of RFEs was presented by Sunthar.                      
                                                              
  o add titles to itemizedlist and orderedlist. - accepted as 
    4.0 change                                                
                                                              
  o add an attribute for line numbering in programlisting     
    only for the purposes of labeling -                       
    linenumbering=(numbered|unnumbered)                       
                                                              
5.0 Issues                                                    
                                                              
Issue 93 - Add markup for forms: Initially: use html-*        
instead of namespaces; they'll have the html attrs, for now   
we won't add common.attrs. Then it was decided that if we     
were going to use -*, we might as well use namespaces, but    
there was no consensus as to what URI to use for the ns, and  
what to do with future updates. So after more discussion, it  
was decided to leave it off until 5.0.                        
                                                              
Issue 38 - Review nav.class availability: Norm reopened it    
because loosening the content model of components and         
sections too much would allow sects to be siblings of         
recursive sections, etc.                                      
                                                              
A new rfe (#118) was filed regarding simplesects.             
                                                              
There are 7 RFEs left to be done for 5.0, and they will be    
FU'd in 4.0                                                   
                                                              
Potentiall schema design characteristics                      
                                                              
  o Modularity, incorporating modules from elsewhere          
                                                              
  o Scope (all/some of Docbook?                               
                                                              
  o Build on strengths ( our core competency)                 
                                                              
  o Embedded documentation                                    
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
07 December                                                   
                                                              
Dennis Evans present.                                         
                                                              
Discussion on schemas.                                        
                                                              
What we would want to get out of schemas when/if we turn      
docbook into a schema. Inheritance? Some obvious things it    
would apply to, like admonitions, but it may not be too       
useful in many places. Extensions, subsetting, how to         
indicate whether a docbook related schema is a subset or an   
extension of the docbook schema.                              
                                                              
Schema validity is different from dtd/sgml validity.          
                                                              
Three things to consider: do not allow anything from other    
namespeces, or only from well known namespaces, or disallow   
extensions.                                                   
                                                              
Further discussion on modularization, relationship between    
that and namespaces, types and class hierarchies.             
                                                              
The goal should not be backward compatibility but rather what 
we wanted originally but could not express in DTDs. We would  
expect most documents to validate under both dtds and schemas 
but we would not guarantee it at all. The isomorphic stage is 
4.0, but not afterwards.                                      
                                                              
We will also start working on Xlink at the schema stage (see  
Issue 70 above).                                              
                                                              
Timelines - Docbook 4.0 in SGML and XML by January 2000;      
docbook 5.0 in XML by January 2001.                           
                                                              
Dates: Xtech in February, Paris in June, XML 2000 in December 
4th                                                           
                                                              
AI for Eve to post some potential design and implementation   
principles related to Schema development.                     
