DocBook TC Minutes, 7 Dec 2000                               

Summary                                                       
                                                              
These notes summarize the DocBook Technical Committee (TC)    
meeting that took place in Washington D.C. on 6 and 7 Dec     
2000 as part of the OASIS meetings colocated with XML 2000.   
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
6 Dec                                                         
                                                              
Failed to achieve quorum. No official meeting.                
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
7 Dec                                                         
                                                              
Meeting called to order by the chair.                         
                                                              
Present                                                       
                                                              
  o Dennis Evans                                              
                                                              
  o Tony Graham                                               
                                                              
  o Sabine Ocker (provisional member)                         
                                                              
  o Michael Sabrio                                            
                                                              
  o Norman Walsh (Chair)                                      
                                                              
Agenda                                                        
                                                              
  o Determine meeting dates for 2001                          
                                                              
  o Discuss plans for DocBook 5.0                             
                                                              
  o Review RFEs                                               
                                                              
  o Discuss Linking in DocBook                                
                                                              
  o Discuss parameter entity reorganization                   
                                                              
  o Discuss XML Schema                                        
                                                              
Determine meeting dates for 2001                              
                                                              
Moved: we will meet face to face for 1 day at XML Europe      
(Berlin) and XML 2001 (Orlando, FL). We will request that our 
meetings be scheduled on the last day of the conference so as 
to overlap with other technical activities as little as       
possible. Furthermore, we will have telcons on 23 Feb, 27     
Jul, and 28 Sep.                                              
                                                              
The motion was adopted without objection.                     
                                                              
Discuss plans for DocBook 5.0                                 
                                                              
In accordance with earlier plans, DocBook 5.0 will be an XML  
DTD. However, there was little support for completely         
abandoning SGML. Many existing SGML systems will continue to  
be SGML based for some time and there are features (most      
notably exclusions) that are lost in XML.                     
                                                              
Moved: the committee will produce an XML version of DocBook   
5.0 with sufficient parameterization to allow SGML features   
to be "turned on" with a very small customization layer. The  
committee will provide the customization layer.               
                                                              
The motion was adopted without objection.                     
                                                              
There was some discussion of using the public text display    
version to distinguish between the XML and SGML DTDs but it   
was eventually rejected.                                      
                                                              
Moved: the FPI for the XML version of DocBook V5.0 will be:   
                                                              
-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V5.0//EN                            
                                                              
and the FPI for the SGML version will be:                     
                                                              
-//OASIS//DTD DocBook SGML V5.0//EN                           
                                                              
The motion was adopted without objection.                     
                                                              
Review RFEs                                                   
                                                              
It was observed that the RFE database is in a rather jumbled  
state. Action to norm: fix it.                                
                                                              
RFE #140: Allow multiple MsgExplan inside SimpleMsgEntry      
                                                              
   Moved: change the content model of SimpleMsgEntry to allow 
   MsgExplan+.                                                
                                                              
   The motion was adopted without objection.                  
                                                              
   The fact that we were adopting a motion that made the      
   content model of SimpleMsgEntry more complex was not lost  
   on us.                                                     
                                                              
RFE #144: Add introductory material to lists                  
                                                              
   This continues to be an issue for Sun documentation.       
                                                              
   Recap: Authors sometimes need to provide a paragraph or    
   two of description before the items of a list. These       
   paragraphs are considered to be part of the list, so it's  
   perhaps not appropriate to put them before the list.       
   Putting them before the list is problematic because        
   grabbing the list and moving it elsewhere will not capture 
   the necessary introductory material. Procedure already     
   allows this structure.                                     
                                                              
   No problems have been reported due to the fact that        
   procedure allows this structure.                           
                                                              
   Moved: add %%component mix;*; (minus the list elements) to 
   orderedlist, itemizedlist, calloutlist, and variablelist   
   before the first list item.                                
                                                              
   The motion was adopted without objection.                  
                                                              
RFE #145: Allow additional material after the last step in    
Procedure                                                     
                                                              
   Tabled: waiting for feedback from Sun on whether or not    
   this solves the particular problem they've encountered.    
                                                              
RFE #93: Add markup for forms                                 
                                                              
   Tabled: wait for the W3C XForms WG to finish then consider 
   plugging it in similar to the MathML plugin.               
                                                              
RFE #114: Support for EBNF (XML Spec productions)             
                                                              
   Tabled: leave as customization layer until                 
   interoperability is demonstrated. Action to the people who 
   claim to need this: give us feedback!                      
                                                              
RFE #132: Allow date to occur inline                          
                                                              
   Action: discuss on TC mailing list. Is this in scope? Do   
   we want to do this?                                        
                                                              
RFE #133: Add newsgroup element                               
                                                              
   Action: definitely in scope. Discuss on TC list: do we add 
   this as an element (like email) or a class on systemitem?  
                                                              
RFE #134: Additional elements to describe file systems and    
database objects                                              
                                                              
   The request for database-related elements seems already to 
   be handled by the database element.                        
                                                              
   Moved: add a new class value to filename, "extension", to  
   identify filename extensions.                              
                                                              
   The motion was adopted without objection.                  
                                                              
RFE #135: Support for a po tag for creating pot files for     
easier doc translation                                        
                                                              
   Tabled: we don't understand the request. Action to norm:   
   ask for additional detail.                                 
                                                              
RFE #136: Allow co in userinput                               
                                                              
   Tabled: callouts in the middle of a paragraph seem odd.    
   Action to norm: ask for additional detail.                 
                                                              
RFE #138: Add PDF to ImageData format notations               
                                                              
   The motion was adopted without objection.                  
                                                              
RFE #139: Add SVG as a Notation                               
                                                              
   The motion was adopted without objection.                  
                                                              
RFE #141: Add 'contribution' attribute to OtherCredit         
                                                              
   This would allow the contribution made by persons given    
   other credit to be identified. Discuss on TC list. What    
   about multiple authors?                                    
                                                              
Discuss Linking in DocBook                                    
                                                              
Thinking about XLink:                                         
                                                              
  o Link/Ulink we think will be collapsed into Link using     
    XLink "simple link" semantics.                            
                                                              
  o Xref will remain because of the gentext processing        
    expectation. An empty "Link" cannot have the XRef         
    semantic because it conflicts with the empty "Ulink"      
    semantic.                                                 
                                                              
  o Olink could be collapsed into link because xpointer can   
    replace targetdocent.                                     
                                                              
    Sun makes heavy use of OLink, action to Dennis:           
    investigate the problems that removing OLink would cause. 
                                                              
  o Action to Norm: After Dennis reports, make a concrete     
    proposal before 5.0 is officially published (if XLink is  
    a Recommendation in time). Include an extendedlink        
    element for use inside *info elements.                    
                                                              
Discuss parameter entity reorganization                       
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
Discuss XML Schema                                            
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
Meeting adjourned.                                            
