DocBook TC Minutes, 14/15 June 2000                          
                                           Summary            
                                           14 June            
                                           15 June            
                                           Action Items       
Summary                                                       
                                                              
These notes summarize the DocBook Technical Committee (TC)    
meeting that took place in Paris on 14 and 15 June 2000 as    
part of the OASIS meetings colocated with XML Europe 2000.    
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
14 June                                                       
                                                              
Present                                                       
                                                              
  o Terry Allen                                               
                                                              
  o Dennis Evans                                              
                                                              
  o Eduardo Gutentag                                          
                                                              
  o Norman Walsh (Chair)                                      
                                                              
Agenda                                                        
                                                              
  o Review and approve DocBook 4.1 changes                    
                                                              
  o Review RFEs                                               
                                                              
  o Discuss parameter entity reorganization                   
                                                              
  o Discuss XML Schema                                        
                                                              
Review and approve DocBook V4.1                               
                                                              
Moved: we approve V4.1 with the minor changes previously      
outlined: fixing FPIs, comments, and the version number in    
the catalog.                                                  
                                                              
The motion was adopted without objection.                     
                                                              
If 4.1 contains errors, let's make it possible to fix them    
without a teleconference or face-to-face meeting:             
                                                              
Moved: we agree that future versions of 4.x can be released   
by the editor without formal vote, provided that members of   
the docbook-tc mailing list are given 5 business days to      
raise objections and no such objections are raised.           
                                                              
The motion was adopted without objection.                     
                                                              
New RFEs                                                      
                                                              
Add introductory material to lists                            
                                                              
   Authors sometimes need to provide a paragraph or two of    
   description before the items of a list. These paragraphs   
   are considered to be part of the list, so it's perhaps not 
   appropriate to put them before the list. Procedure already 
   allows this structure. Consider adding <listintro> before  
   listitem* in the list content models.                      
                                                              
Add floating non-hierarchical structure                       
                                                              
   Authors would like the ability to add non-hierarchical     
   sections (like Bridgehead) that are proper containers      
   (like Sidebar). Consider adding <division>.                
                                                              
Issue 117: Add support for DOI in meta                        
                                                              
   We see that DOI will not be the only object identifier. We 
   will add biblioid and citebiblioid with a class attribute. 
   The legal values of this attribute will be: urn, doi,      
   isbn, issn, pubnumber. The elements isbn, issn, and        
   pubnumber are deprecated. FU that we will remove them in   
   6.0.                                                       
                                                              
Issue 120: Add macro element for marking up macros in         
programming languages                                         
                                                              
   Macro already exists as a class of systemitem. See action  
   items; we need a design principal for when to add new      
   inlines or new class attributes.                           
                                                              
Issue 121: Add markup for signals                             
                                                              
   Need more info. What other sorts of things are like this.  
   Rather than adding new inlines for signal specifically,    
   we'd like to come up with an element that was more general 
   and add class values. Perhaps "Event" and "EventHandler"?  
                                                              
Issue 122: Add markup for troubleshooting                     
                                                              
   Rejected: this seems to be too application specific.       
   Suggest Procedure with role and possibly other inline      
   markup or a local extension.                               
                                                              
Issue 123: Add markup to support specifications               
                                                              
   Rejected: we consider this is out-of-scope for DocBook,    
   but he should consider RosettaNet which is doing product   
   spec sheets and similar sorts of things.                   
                                                              
Issue 124: Add markup for hostnames and other host            
identifiers                                                   
                                                              
   We already have a class on systemitem for systemname. We   
   suggest that these are further useful class values for     
   systemitem but do not warrant a unique element name. We'll 
   add the following class attributes to systemitem:          
   domainname, fqdomainname, ipaddress, netmask,              
   etheraddress. We consider hostname already covered by      
   systemname.                                                
                                                              
Issue 125: Add markup for usernames                           
                                                              
   Username already exists as a class of systemitem.          
                                                              
Issue 126: Allow SimpleSect in Section                        
                                                              
   We will add SimpleSect to the end of Section.              
                                                              
Issue 127: Add 'dissertation' to list of article classes      
                                                              
   Yes.                                                       
                                                              
Issue 128: Better support for typing and linking in funcdef   
                                                              
   We'll add type to the content model of funcdef and         
   paramdef to allow authors to specify that types are in     
   fact types. Linking will be handled by XLink in some       
   future version.                                            
                                                              
Issue 129: Support easier installation                        
                                                              
   The committee welcomes such efforts, but is unwilling to   
   undertake the issue directly. There's too much variability 
   across platforms.                                          
                                                              
Issue 130: Add inline markup for protocols, FS types, and     
partitions                                                    
                                                              
   Protocol is another example of a case where we need to     
   consider the design more carefully (what other things are  
   like protocols); in the meantime use literal, phrase, or   
   some other markup with a role attribute.                   
                                                              
   We'll add 'filesystem' to the class attribute of           
   systemitem.                                                
                                                              
   We'll add 'partition' to the class attribute of filename.  
                                                              
Issue 131: Simplify citerefentry markup                       
                                                              
   Considered and rejected.                                   
                                                              
Discuss parameter entity reorganization                       
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
Discuss XML Schema                                            
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
15 June                                                       
                                                              
Present                                                       
                                                              
  o Terry Allen                                               
                                                              
  o Dennis Evans                                              
                                                              
  o Norman Walsh (Chair)                                      
                                                              
Agenda                                                        
                                                              
  o Review and approve DocBook 4.1 changes                    
                                                              
  o Review RFEs                                               
                                                              
  o Discuss parameter entity reorganization                   
                                                              
  o Discuss XML Schema                                        
                                                              
Discuss parameter entity reorganization                       
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
Discuss XML Schema                                            
                                                              
Discussion continues.                                         
                                                              
  ---------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              
Action Items                                                  
                                                              
  o norm: Remind list about EBNF. If there's no comment in 1  
    month, we'll just close the issue.                        
                                                              
  o norm: Remind list about coregion. If no one expresses     
    need, we'll just close the issue.                         
                                                              
  o Dennis: survey the landscape of technical inlines and     
    propose a design principal.                               
