| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 18 Dec 2001
| ========================================================
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Patricia Gee-Best
Dennis Evans
Nancy Harrison (:17)
Dick Hamilton
Sabine Ocker
Michael Smith
Bob Stayton
Norman Walsh

Quorum present; meeting called to order by the chair.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Action: Norm to update web page to point to minutes of 30 Nov 2001.

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Issue 4b.

| 4. Review of open action items
|
|    a. Norm to write a concrete proposal for linking in DocBook 5.0

Continued, topic for next meeting.

|    b. Norm to propose new "name and address" markup

Mike posted a nice summary.
Action: Still need to consider how to harmonize.

|    c. Sabine to draft initial proposal for help topic authoring

No feedback from help group will be forthcoming.

|    d. Sabine to post a summary of continuing discussions about the
|       content model of lists and procedures.

Continued.

|    e. Norm to post message to DocBook list about Bibliographys in Refentrys.

Action: Norm to change to pending (RFE #XXXX), waiting for more feedback.

|    f. Norm to post HTML Forms Module V1.1

Action: continued.

|    g. Mike Smith to formulate concrete proposal for OLink changes to the DTD.

Completed.

|    h. RFE 440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName: Norm to write concrete proposal

Action: continued.

|    i. RFE 441883 endterm behavior in link: Norm to attempt to improve the
|       description and post on list

Action: Bob to clarify the refentry for link.

|    j. RFE 472229 Allow HTML tables: Norm to ask on list (namespace or alternatives)

Completed.

|    k. RFE 473365 Allow optional in funcprototype: Norm to ask on list

Completed.

|    l. RFE 482818 Simplify ToC content model: Norm to ask on list

Completed. Mike followed up.

| 4b.DocBook version naming scheme

Modules will track the most current DTD, but will not be officially
patched "backward" to previous versions of the DTD.

We will rev the version number of modules when we update them to refer
to new base DTDs.

| 5. Name and Address markup and the QIC TC

Postponed by request of the QIC Chair

Action: review Mike's summary of the name

| 6. DocBook community web page

There was some concern over how this list is going to be characterized
wrt how "official" it is.

Action: Mike to propose explicit wording for the page and the
information to be collected.

| 7. Metadata

Given that Dublin Core is not intended to be a metadata standard in
its own right (i.e., you aren't supposed to make DC elements), there's
no pressing urgency for us to refine our model to some other standard.

Action: Bob to write a concrete proposal for the missing elements to
map to Dublin Core.

Action: Nancy to provide a list of places where we should allow more
metadata.

The next agenda will set forth time limits for discussions to assure
that we make progress in both areas. Put the RFEs first next month
with a time limit.

Meeting adjourned by the chair.

| 7b. Moving beyond DTDs.
| 7c. Modularity

| 8. Review of open RFEs[2]
|
|      To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
|         group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|      where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|    440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName
|    470599 Need an imagedata to fit to max size
|    472229 Allow HTML tables
|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|    480957 New name and address markup
|    482818 Simplify ToC content model
|    486260 address in /article/articleinfo/author
|    487482 Add legalnoticeinfo
|    488368 Simplify single index entries
|    488378 Support xml:lang
|    488740 Book allows SetIndex
|    491629 Add <personname> to %gen.char.class
|    492099 two new olink attributes
|    493564 Email should not allow e.g Inlinegraphic
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200111/msg00022.html
| [2] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?group_id=21935&atid=384107
