| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 20 Nov 2001
| ========================================================
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Dennis Evans
Dick Hamilton
Sabine Ocker
Michael Smith
Bob Stayton
Norman Walsh
Nancy (Paisner) Harrison (:30)

Regrets:

Patricia Gee-Best

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Welcome new members Dick Hamilton and Bob Stayton

Dick Hamilton is a manager at HP. Currently managing the group that
does a variety of things related to HP Unix documentation. Been
involved with SGML since 1991 in various forms. Worked very closely
with Michael Sabrio.

Bob Stayton is the publications architect at Caldera (formerly SCO).
Been involved in DocBook since the Davenport Group. Our group is doing
more XML so I'm back into it. Responsible for publishing tools at
Caldera.

| 4. Review of the agenda

No changes.

| 5. Review of open action items
|
|    a. TC review of Augmented Metadata in XHTML[2]

Completed.

|    b. Mike Smith to formulate concrete proposal for OLink

Completed[4]

|    c. Norm to ask about RFE 440667 (Affiliation lacks CorpName) on list

Completed[5]

|    d. Norm to review RFE 441883 and post improved text to the list

Action: continued

|    e. Norm to ask about RFE 456174 (YearRange) on list

Completed[6]

|    f. Norm to ask Karl about f2f schedule in Orlando

Completed[7]. There will be no official meeting, but there will be a BOF.
Everyone is encouraged to attend.

|    g. Norm to write a concrete proposal for linking in DocBook 5.0

Completed[8]

Action: Norm to make official proposal.

|    h. Norm to propose new "name and address" markup

Completed[9]

Action: Norm to make official proposal.

|    i. Sabine to draft initial proposal for help topic authoring

Action: continued.

|    j. Sabine to post a summary of continuing discussions about the
|       content model of lists and procedures.

Action: continued.

|    k. Norm to review RFE 431413, former RFE 121 (add markup for signals)

Completed.

|    l. Norm to review RFE 436072 (need for an infosdiv.contents entity)

Completed.

|    m. Norm to publish HTML Module officially as V1.1

Action: continued.

| 6. Shall we allow email ballots?

Proposed: If email ballots are acceptable, the number of votes returned
   must equal or exceed the number of members required to achieve
   quorem, otherwise the ballot is deemed not to have occurred?

Motion passed by acclamation.

Proposed: Shall the committee allow the chair to call for email ballots
   under this policy?

Motion passed by acclamation.

Action: Norm to update committee pages to reflect this decision.
Action: Norm to check with Karl to see if we can actually do this.
       
| 7. Discussion: XML Character Entities

Proposed: Norm will publish a Working Draft of XML Character Entities.

Motion passed by acclamation.

| 8. Shall we release DocBook V4.2 beta 1?

Proposed: Norm will publish DocBook V4.2 Beta 1.

Motion passed by acclamation.

| 9. Discussion: metadata

Three lines of discussion:
1. What goes in *Info?
2. Where can *Info go?
3. How many *Info's should there be?

Action: Norm, Dick, and Bob to identify a mapping from Dublin Core to
DocBook meta and publish that.

Action: Nancy to provide a list of places to add it.

Discussion continued to the next meeting.

| 9b. OLink

Discussion continued to the next meeting.

| 10. Review of open RFEs[3]

|    482821 Add introductory material to lists

Action: Norm to post pointers to past discussion. This item is closed.

Action: Norm to propose times for an interrum meeting before Dec 18 to
discuss the RFEs.

At this point, the meeting time expired. Meeting adjourned by the chair.

|      To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
|         group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|      where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|    423598 Content models that allow BridgeHead
|    440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName
|    441883 endterm behavior in link
|    470599 Need an imagedata to fit to max size
|    472229 Allow HTML tables
|    472984 end note support
|    473193 Add text form for equations
|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|    477073 Modularize the hierarchy further
|    480954 Extend textobject to insert external files
|    480955 Add coref
|    480957 New name and address markup
|    482810 MsgText has far too broad a content mode
|    482811 Remove title from bibliocomponent.mix
|    482812 Adjust content of CiteTitle
|    482815 Remove %synop.class; from %para.char.mix
|    482818 Simplify ToC content model
|    482819 Keep 'cooked' and 'raw' separated
|    482922 Allow MsgText only inside MsgSet
|
| 11. Review of pending RFEs
|
|    412476 Class on ProductName should be #IMPLIED
|    413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME
|    416415 Remove Constant class from SystemItem
|    425730 Create an SVG module
|    431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|    431412 RFE 113: proc. exp. of RevHistory order
|    434838 add partintroinfo element
|    435518 Allow bibliography in refsect1
|    436067 splitting tech.char.class
|    439938 specify link destination for area
|    440081 No example for ReleaseInfo
|    444337 epilogue in dtd?
|    451030 xref to block
|    456460 Ordering of attribute declarations
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200109/msg00077.html
| [2] http://www.doctypes.org/meta/NOTE-xhtml-augmeta.html
| [3] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?group_id=21935&atid=384107

[4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200111/msg00001.html
[5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200109/msg00075.html
[6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200109/msg00076.html
[7] http://www.oasis-open.org/members/meeting_schedule.shtml
[8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200111/msg00127.html
[9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200111/msg00118.html
