DocBook TC Minutes, 23 Feb 2001                              

These are the minutes of the 23 Feb 2001 meeting of the OASIS 
DocBook Technical Committee. This meeting occured by          
teleconference.                                               
                                                              
Call to order                                                 
                                                              
Called to order by the chair, 13:05 EST.                      
                                                              
Roll Call                                                     
                                                              
  o Karl Best (Observing)                                     
                                                              
  o Dennis Evans                                              
                                                              
  o Sabine Ocker                                              
                                                              
  o Michael Sabrio                                            
                                                              
  o Norman Walsh (Chair)                                      
                                                              
Absent                                                        
                                                              
  o Tony Graham                                               
                                                              
  o Micheal Smith                                             
                                                              
  o Sunthar Visuvalingam                                      
                                                              
Accept minutes of the previous meeting                        
                                                              
Accepted.                                                     
                                                              
Suggestions for changes to the agenda                         
                                                              
No changes.                                                   
                                                              
Review of Action Items                                        
                                                              
 1. Norm to fix RFE database                                  
                                                              
    Continued.                                                
                                                              
 2. Discuss on list: EBNF                                     
                                                              
    Continued, assigned to Norm.                              
                                                              
 3. Discuss on list: allow date to occur inline               
                                                              
    Discussed. Action: Rejected.                              
                                                              
 4. Discuss on list: newsgroup element or class on systemitem 
                                                              
    Continued, assigned to Norm                               
                                                              
 5. Norm to ask author what was meant by RFE 135 (po tag)     
                                                              
    No reply. Action: Rejected.                               
                                                              
 6. Norm to ask for more detail on RFE 136 (co in userinput)  
                                                              
    Continued.                                                
                                                              
 7. Dennis to investigate problems caused by removing OLink   
                                                              
    Continued.                                                
                                                              
    Action: Micheal S. investigate problems caused by         
    removing OLink                                            
                                                              
 8. Norm to develope a concrete proposal for linking in 5.0   
                                                              
    Continued pending reports from Dennis and Micheal. Also   
    because XLink is not yet a W3C Recommendation.            
                                                              
Discussion of technical issues                                
                                                              
 1. RFE 142: Add inline markup for CPU registers              
                                                              
    Accepted. Add class 'Register' to SystemItem. This fits   
    with our design principle of providing support and we can 
    explode it out later.                                     
                                                              
 2. RFE 143: Add xml:space attribute to linespecific          
    environments                                              
                                                              
    Accepted, in the XML version only, add it as a #FIXED     
    attribute.                                                
                                                              
 3. RFE 144: Add introductory material to lists               
                                                              
    Already accepted. Failed to record in the previous        
    minutes.                                                  
                                                              
 4. RFE 145: Allow additional material after the last step in 
    a Procedure                                               
                                                              
    Sabine will start discussion on the list and conduct an   
    email vote. Voting to commence no later than 12 March and 
    conclude COB EST no sooner than 16 Mar.                   
                                                              
 5. RFE 146: Extend textobject to insert external files       
                                                              
    Pending. Action to norm: make a concrete proposal.        
                                                              
 6. RFE 147: Add coref                                        
                                                              
    Pending. Action to norm: make a concrete proposal.        
                                                              
 7. RFE 133: Newsgroup element                                
                                                              
    Pending. Action to norm: ask the list.                    
                                                              
Discuss next meeting (at XML Europe)                          
                                                              
May have to cancel because quorum will not be achievable.     
Will report further in advance of the meeting.                
                                                              
Adjournment                                                   
                                                              
Adjouned by chair, 14:08 EST.                                 
