| Agenda
| ------
| 
| 1. Roll call

Norman Walsh
Dennis Evans
Michael Sabrio
Michael Smith
Sabine Ocker

We have quorum, meeting called to order by the chair.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

No changes requested.

| 4. Review of open action items
| 
|    a. Norm to fix RFE database

Norm suggests: let's move it to SourceForge; that's item 5 on today's
agenda.

Continued until item 5 in this agenda.

|    b. Norm to raise on list: EBNF

Completed.

Proposed: we've made it an "official" module by providing explicit
hooks for it.

Accepted.

Action: Norm to clarify this in the web pages.

|    c. Norm to raise on list: newsgroup element or class on systemitem 

Completed[a]. No one suggested that &lt;systemitem class="newsgroup"&gt; was
too odious.

Proposed: let's do that and revisit if someone objects.

Accepted.

|    d. Norm to ask for more detail on RFE 136 (co in userinput)

Completed (in private email). The real issue is 

   &lt;screen&gt;&lt;prompt&gt;#&lt;/prompt&gt; &lt;userinput&gt;foo &lt;co id="foo"&gt; \
bar &lt;co id="bar"&gt; \
baz &lt;co id="baz"&gt;&lt;/userinput&gt;&lt;/screen&gt;

What we'd really like is &lt;co&gt; as an inclusion on &lt;screen&gt; but we
can't have that.

There is a question of what elements would be changed (prompt,
userinput, computeroutput, anything else?)

Michael Sabrio notes that

 &lt;computeroutput&gt;a&lt;/computeroutput&gt;&lt;co id='x'/&gt;&lt;computeroutput&gt;b&lt;/computeroutput&gt;

would be a workaround for some cases. Norm observes that you couldn't
then point to the whole thing with an IDREF.

Dennis expressed concern that there's lots of stuff in &lt;screen&gt; that
could be effected. This looks like a slippery slope.

Action: Norm to write a concrete proposal.

|    e. Dennis to investigate problems caused by removing OLink

Completed. Removing OLink would cause a lot of pain.

|    f. Michael (Sabrio) to investigate problems caused by removing OLink

Completed. There is some use of OLink, but conversion would not be painful.

|    g. Norm to develop a concrete proposal for linking in 5.0

Continued. XPointer/XLink aren't Recommendations yet.

|    h. Norm to make a concrete proposal for extending textobject to insert
|       external files

Completed[b].

|    i. Norm to make a concrete proposal for coref

Completed[c].

| 5. Report on the SourceForge DocBook Project[2] (moving the RFE database
|    to SourceForge)

Proposed: fix RFE database by moving it to SourceForge tracker.

Accepted.

Action: Norm will update the tracker with all outstanding RFEs and
move the RFE history to a static page so that it is not lost.

| 6. Metadata issues
|   - The Open Source Metadata Framework[3]
|   - Dublin core[4]
|   - Metadata for elements at the block level
|   - Names and addresses/the content model of author

Norm: This is a big issue.

Michael Sabrio: A f2f might be the way to go for this.

Norm: There's an Open Source Documentation Summit at the O'Reilly
Open Source Conference[d]

Michael Smith: There are OMF[e] and ScrollKeeper[f] mailing lists.

Michael Sabrio: Wouldn't it make sense to have a single wrapper for
  "all block elements"

Norm: That may be the way to go. We have 'N' flavors of *Info element now
because it was imagined that organizations might want to constrain their
content models differently.

Action: Michael Sabrio will investigate specifically what elements his
group would like to put metadata on.

Norm mused that one rule for deciding what elements get metadata could
be: "all elements with element content". (Elements with mixed content
can't practically have metdata by way of a containing *info wrapper
because of the way XML restricts mixed content models.)

Action: Norm to propose new name and address stuff.

With time running out, the chair interrupts the agenda.

Proposed: we shall begin to meet monthly by teleconference at
01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+) on
Tuesdays.

Accepted.

Proposed: we continue this agenda at an irregular meeting at
01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+) on
Tuesday, 22 May 2001.

Accepted.

Meeting adjourned.

| 7. Adapting DocBook for more topic-oriented manuals
| 
| 8. Addition of section.class parameter entity [5]
| 
| 9. Expand the content model of filename (and perhaps some related elements)
|    to be broader than smallcptr.char.mix. [6][7]
| 
| 10. Content model issues relating to lists and procedures.[8][9]
| 
| 11. Any other business
| 
| Upcoming Meetings
| -----------------
| 27 Jul 2001: Teleconference
| 28 Sep 2001: Teleconference
| 14 Dec 2001: Face-to-face colocated with XML/MT 2001 (Orlando, FL)
| 
| [1] http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/meetings/min20010223.html
| [2] http://sourceforge.net/projects/docbook/
| [3] http://www.ibiblio.org/osrt/omf/
| [4] http://dublincore.org/
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00005.html
| [6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00006.html
| [7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200101/msg00059.html
| [8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00001.html
| [9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200104/msg00016.html
