| Agenda
| ------
| 
| 1. Roll call

Dennis Evans
Sabine Ocker
Michael Sabrio
Michael Smith
Norman Walsh

Called to order by the chair, 13:02

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Added to any other business.

| Continuation of the previous agenda[2]:
| 
| 7. Adapting DocBook for more topic-oriented manuals

M. Sabrio: What we have above 'section' is very book-oriented.

Norm provided a description of Website: independent pages with an
external navigation document.

M. Smith observes that this is what HTML Help really uses.

M. Smith provided a brief summary of the Darwin (DIDA) project
at IBM

M. Smith and Dennis observed that there's a perception problem: people
think DocBook is just about books.

Norm suggested that perhaps we should create a Topic and allow
the content model of Set to be book+ or topic+.

Dennis will ask the local help author for more information.

| 8. Addition of section.class parameter entity [5]

M. Smith points out that this would allow greater flexibility in
creating customization layers.

Norm observes that historically we don't have one because sections
used to be numbered.

Proposal: add a section.class parameter entity (similar to
refentry.class, chapter.class, etc.).

Accepted.

| 9. Expand the content model of filename (and perhaps some related elements)
|    to be broader than smallcptr.char.mix. [6][7]

Proposed: we will go back to cptr.char.mix, we will not create a new
PE that's bigger than smallcptr.char.mix but smaller than cptr.char.mix.

Accepted.

Proposed: post the list of changed elements to the list. Wait a month
for everyone to consider the issues and vote on this at the next
meeting.

These are the elements effected: Action, Command, Database, Filename,
Hardware, Interface, KeyCap, Literal, Option, Parameter, Property, and
SystemItem.

| 10. Content model issues relating to lists and procedures.[8][9]

This issue continues to be discussed. No conclusion is immediately
obvious. Proponents of various proposals agreed to take them to the
list for further discussion. We'll revisit the issue again at the next
meeting.

| 11. Any other business

Proposed: accept EBNF, HTMLForms, and MathML layers as official V1.0
work products.

Accepted.

Proposed: publish a version of the Simplified DocBook DTD as an
official test release with the goal of eventually making it an
official work product.

Accepted.

Adjourned 14:05 by the chair.

| Upcoming Meetings[1]
| -----------------
| 19 Jun 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 17 Jul 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 21 Aug 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 18 Sep 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 16 Oct 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 20 Nov 2001 Teleconference at 13:00EDT for one hour
| 14 Dec 2001: Face-to-face colocated with XML/MT 2001 (Orlando, FL)
| 
| Teleconferences will continue on the third Tuesday of each month.
| 
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200105/msg00005.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200105/msg00004.html
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00005.html
| [6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00006.html
| [7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200101/msg00059.html
| [8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200103/msg00001.html
| [9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200104/msg00016.html
