| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 17 Dec 2002
| ========================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee will met on Tuesday, 17 December 2002
| at 01:00p EST (10:00a PST, 18:00GMT, 19:00CET, 03:00JST+)
| for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

  Steve Cogorno
  Dennis Evans
  Paul Grosso
  Nancy Harrison
  Scott Hudson
  Bob Stayton
  Norman Walsh

Regrets:

  Dick Hamilton

Absent:

  Sabine Ocker
  Michael Smith

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: <packagename> element

Continue.

|    b. Norm to post more detail about the PE reorganization with some documentation

Abandoned in favor of Trang.

ACTION: Norm to review using Trang to generate DTDs and W3C XML Schemas

|    c. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional

Continue.

|    d. Bob to discuss instance-based xref text with Paul

Completed.

|    e. Mike to consider possible attribute values on literallayout for
|       addressing RFE 613293 (generalize programlisting)

Continued until he's present.

| 5. Procedure/Task/Topic

Proposal: We will add StepAlternatives to Step. A Step will contain either
a single StepAlternatives or a single Substeps (or neither). The content model
of StepAlternatives is Step+.

StepAlternatives will have common attributes plus "performance" as per
Substeps and Step.

Accepted.

Steve summarized RFE #621564.

ACTION: Norm to make sure discussion of Task/Topic is on the agenda next month

| 6. Instance-based cross-reference text

We add a style attribute. Its use would be stylesheet dependent. One
kind of use is 'named styles' which the stylesheet can apply. Another
kind is a select process where individual components of the style
attribute are pulled together appropriately.

SC: XFormat or XRefFormat?

We already have 'format' which is a notation for graphic formats.

NH: In that case I would prefer style.

Proposal: We will add an 'xrefstyle' attribute to xref, olink, link, and ulink.
It's CDATA and its values are processor-defined.

Accepted.

| 7. CALS+HTML Table Model

ACTION: Paul to summarize the differences between the two models,
highlighting where there are potential ambiguities (places where there
are two or more choices and at least one of them is wrong).

ACTION: Norm to put this on the agenda again next month

| 8. Simplified ToCs

ACTION: Norm to post to the list again

ACTION: Norm to check on the FU status of this change.

| 9. Review of Requests for Enhancement
|
|    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|           http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;
|           group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|    where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|     616220 frontmatter body backmatter tags

These containers don't seem to add any value. Rejected.

Adjourned.

|     623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup
|     638456 RFE add a <translator> tag
|
|    The following RFEs have been moved to the bottom of this agenda in order
|    to make sure that all RFEs get fairly discussed.
|
|     413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME
|     436067 splitting tech.char.class
|     473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|     482818 Simplify ToC content model
|     514435 Allow reference within refentry
|     541444 caption in mediaobjectco
|     558443 include storage info in metadata
|     562343 <packagename> element
|     564776 process/service/daemon/server markup
|     565637 Associate non-inline image with link
|     565716 URL and URN markup
|     565905 Add xrefstyle attribute
|     570068 Online values for pubwork
|     571996 Add 'namespace' inline element
|     571998 Add 'default' inline element
|     573419 Add bidirectional text overrides
|     573812 Allow blockinfo on blockquote
|     574880 Add annotation element
|     582705 Namespace convention for MathML Module
|     582822 VARARG and FUNCDEF together
|     613293 Generalize programlisting
|
|    The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|     431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|     472229 Allow HTML tables
|     522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element
|     609061 Add new Step sibling element Alternative
|     621564 New element Task and children
|     640090 Add 'Steps' element for grouping steps
|
|    The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|     531851 Remove inline person name elements
|     532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200211/msg00012.html
