| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Agenda: 25 Jun 2002
| =======================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 25 June 2002 at
| 01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+)
| for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

  Paul Grosso
  Dick Hamilton
  Sabine Ocker
  Mike Smith
  Bob Stayton
  Norman Walsh

Absent:

  Dennis Evans

Regrets:

  Nancy Harrison
  Tim Teebken (Provisional)

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

- Help (postponed in Tim's absence)
- Per-instance generated text (at Bob's request)
+ Linking
+ Scheduling of releases

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Norm to write a concrete proposal for linking in DocBook 5.0
|       Completed[2]
|    b. Nancy to review DITA for help authoring and summarize.
        Continued.
|    c. Norm to consider scheduling for 4.3, 5.0, 6.0 etc.
|       Continued.
|    d. Norm and Paul to take up offline the particular issues of how
|       to do the HTML/Table customization.
|       Continued.
|    e. Norm to follow-up on 'optionalparamdef'/'optionalmethodparam' after
|       starting discussion on the list[3][4]
|    f. Norm to follow-up with the submitter for more info about
|       RFE #495853: add 'caption' to itemizedlist content-model
|       asking the submitter for clarification
|       Completed [5]
|    g. Bob to write an RFE for instance-based generated xref text
        Continued
        ACTION: Bob to write a more detailed proposal
|    h. Mike to file an bug report against the character entities (wrt identification)
|       Completed and fixed [6]
|    i. Norm to review the status of the XML Character Entities document.
        Completed.
|    j. Norm to identify the questionable mappings and fix outstanding bugs.
        Continued.
|    k. Tim to contact a representative from Microsoft to discuss help authoring
        Continued.
|    l. Norm to ask on the list about RFE #514425: Simplify info elements
|       Completed [7]
|    m. Norm to ask the list if the relative ordering of info elements and titles
|       is an issue (worth fixing)
|       Completed [8]
|    n. Mike to follow-up with the submitter for more info about
|       RFE #514435: Allow reference within refentry
|
| 5. Discuss XML Character Entities {10 min}
|     - OASIS/W3C coordination

     The MathML WG at the W3C is doing the same thing. Do we do this ourselves,
     drop it on the floor, or do a coordinated release?

     Proposed: Wait to see the result of the MathML erratum/update. Re-evaluate
     after that's published. This effectively back-burners our spec
     until they've finished.

     Accepted.

|     - iso-lat5

     Proposed: Reject. We don't want to become the maintainers of a living,
     growing set of entities. Our remit was to produce an XML set of ISO 8879
     entities.

     Accepted.

     Note that installers are free to add additional entities in dbgenent.mod.
     A DTD modified in this way can still be called "DocBook".

5b. Linking in DocBook

     This topic is actively being discussed on the list, so we aren't going to try
     to make any final decisions today.

     Question: is there anyone that feels the DocBook TC should *not* attempt
     to solve this problem? Is there anyone that doesn't want to do this at all?

     No. So we will do something.

     Sabine reports that Sun is looking to expand linking capacity to better
     support Sun documentation requirements.

     Bob wonders about the ramifications of selecting XLink with
     respect to XPointer conformance.

     Some discussion of internet media types. In practice, doing this might make
     our documents no longer appear to be XML to existing tools.

     Some discussion of generated text.

     Norm asserts that we need to clearly distinguish between DocBook issues and
     style/presentation issues.

5c. Scheduling of releases

     We expect to vote on 4.2 at the next meeting.

     Discussion of constraints on major releases. (We can do 5.0 whenever we want
     because 4.0 is more than a year old. We can't do 6.0 until 1 year after we do
     5.0, but we also can't make any backwards incompatible changes in 6.0 that we
     don't announce in 5.0.)

     Norm muses that he thinks a 5.0 release in the end-of-year time-frame feels
     about right.

     The current spec lists currently planned changes for 5.0 and 6.0.

| 6. Discuss options to control per-instance generated text on xref {15 min}

     Postponed.

| 7. Discuss Help Authoring {10 min}

     Postponed.

| 8. Discuss Annotations {15 min}

     Annotations would be associated with the element that contains them.
     Mike points out that this would allow the content of an element that contained
     an annotation to be presented with a special color or other distinctive
     presentation.

     Mike: if we want to add an element for associating expanded/spelled-out versions
     of acronyms and abbreviations, we might want to provide a broader solution so
     that we could support anything someone wanted to annotate.

     Footnote has legacy connotations.

     ACTION: Paul to send email describing some unresolved processing expectation
     issues.

| 9. Review of Requests for Enhancement {35 min}
|
|    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;;
|         group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|    where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype

     ACTION: Norm to continue discussion in email

|    514244 Allowing xref inside link

     Proposed: Postpone until we've decided on generalized linking.

     Accepted.

|    514425 Simplify info elements

     Reject: it would be a significant backwards incompatibility hit and there
     was no support on the list for this proposal.

     Accepted.    

|    514435 Allow reference within refentry

     Refentry has always had the semantic of Unix manual pages where the
     suggested nesting has no parallel.

     The only apparent loss that would occur from unwrapping the suggested
     markup and using nested sections and methodsynopsis elements is that you
     would not be able to have a refpurpose for each method.

     ACTION: Mike to ask the submitter if what he'd miss is the additional refpurpose
             or is there more to it?

     ACTION: Mike to start thread about this markup on the DocBook list

|    533734 Allow methodsynopsis not to have parameters

     Proposed: Accept this request.

     Accepted.

|    558443 include storage info in metadata

     ACTION: Bob to investigate. Do the new Dublin Core elements suffice?

|    560957 Allow Linkend and Endterm on Citation

     Proposed: postpone until after generalized linking.

     Accepted.

Meeting adjourned. Next meeting is 16 July 2002.

|    562343 <packagename> element
|    564776 process/service/daemon/server markup
|    565637 Associate non-inline image with link
|    565716 URL and URN markup
|    565905 Add xrefstyle attribute
|    570068 Online values for pubwork
|    571996 Add 'namespace' inline element
|    571998 Add 'default' inline element
|
|    The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|    472229 Allow HTML tables
|    431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|
|    The following RFEs have been moved to the bottom of this agenda in order
|    to make sure that all RFEs get fairly discussed.
|
|    413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME
|    425730 Create an SVG module
|    436067 splitting tech.char.class
|    482818 Simplify ToC content model
|    522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200205/msg00083.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00139.html
| [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200205/msg00078.html
| [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00005.html
| [5] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=495853&group_id=21935&atid=384107
| [6] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=559737&group_id=21935&atid=462824
| [7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00043.html
| [8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00044.html
