DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 19 Nov 2002
=======================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 19 November 2002 at
01:00p EST (10:00a PST, 18:00GMT, 19:00CET, 03:00JST+) for 90 minutes.

| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Attendees

  Dennis Evans
  Dick Hamilton
  Nancy Harrison
  Sabine Ocker
  Michael Smith
  Bob Stayton
  Norman Walsh

Regrets:

  Paul Grosso

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Norm to construct an example of RFE #558443 using existing metadata

Completed. By Bob, actually[2].

|    b. Dick to experiment with SiberSafe for help authoring background

DH: Basically seems like a neat product but didn't see anything that addressed
help beyond what we already know about.

NH: Did it look like it would add value for single-source help and print?

DH: Yes. They do entity management and have thought a fair amount
about the topic. In the particular context here, it doesn't seem much
more, but in terms of use it's worth taking a look at.

|    c. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: <packagename> element

Continued.

|    d. Norm to post combined table markup for CALS+HTML

Completed[3].

ACTION: Norm to put on agenda for discussion at next telcon

|    e. Sabine to provide some concrete examples for HTML Help

Withdrawn.

|    f. Norm to investigate namespace convention in MathML Module (RFE #582705)

Completed[4]

|    g. Norm to republish simplified ToC proposal

Completed[5]

ACTION: Norm to put on agenda for discussion at next telcon

|    h. Norm to post more detail about the PE reorganization with some documentation

Continued.

|    i. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional

Continued.

|    j. Dennis to find out if he can post the internal style guide documentation
|       on option/optional

Continued.

ACTION: Norm and Dennis to discuss offline.

|    k. Norm to find previous discussion of process/server/daemon markup
|       (Dind't we fall back on systemitem?)

Completed[6]

|    l: Norm to put instance-based xref text on the agenda for next month.

Compelted[. :-)]

| 5. Advance Simplified DocBook to Committee Specification

Simplified DocBook V1.0

Any object to making Committee Specification? None. Accepted.

DocBook SVG V1.0

Any object to making Committee Specification? None. Accepted.

DocBook EBNF V1.1

Any object to making Committee Specification? None. Accepted.

| 6. Instance-based cross-reference text

This is on the agenda for Paul to consider use cases. Unfortunately,
Paul isn't here this week.

ACTION: Bob to discuss with Paul for next month. Plan to close next month.

| 7. Procedure/Task/Topic

MS: It would be nice to have a logical grouping for more contexts than
just procedure (for example, in itemized and ordered lists). The other
use is to reuse sets of steps.

NH: It sounds like you want a grouping mechanism like group in
cmdsynopsis.

...ranging discussion...

NW: I think we want to address some short-term pain with a tweak to
procedure and deal with the long-term issues of addressing help or
task/topic authoring by building a larger, broader design.

BS: I'm not ready to decide this issue without reconsidering procedure
as a smaller piece of a larger design.

ACTION: Everyone to discuss in email

Norm pleads with the group to please be ready to decide what to decide
by next month. :-)

ACTION: Norm to put on the agenda again next month

| 8. Review of Requests for Enhancement {40 min}
|
|    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|           http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;
|           group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|    where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|     613293 Generalize programlisting

General agreement that this is a fuzzy area and it doesn't really matter.

MS: There doesn't seem to be much need to distinguish between these.

ACTION: MS will consider possible attribute values on literallayout for
        addressing this in a relatively inexpensive manner.

|     615473 Extend float values on figure?

All we can say is float yes or no. Modern systems provide more flexibility.

NW: I propose "figstyle" as CDATA for keyword. This would allow
authors to identify that, for example, figures and tables should be
floated differently.

We could also have 'exstyle' and 'eqstyle' for Examples and Equations.

BS: Floating might be one type of style, but style could also mean
other things.

NW: Maybe 'floatstyle' makes more sense on all four.

Any object to adding floatstyle to all four formal objects. Type CDATA
with documentation saying that it is expected to be a keyword. None.

Accepted.

|     615587 Support xml:base

Any object to adding xml:base to the common attributes? None.

Accepted.

|     615588 Support XInclude

BS: I don't think it's possible because you can potentially XInclude
required elements.

Rejected. You should do XInclude before DTD validation.

|     616216 recursive Subset tag

We will add set to itself, allowing (set|book)+ where (book)+ is
currently allowed in set. Any objection? None.

Accepted.

ADJOURNED

|     616220 frontmatter body backmatter tags
|     621564 New element Task and children
|     623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup
|     638456 RFE add a <translator> tag
|     640090 Add 'Steps' element for grouping steps
|
|    The following RFEs have been moved to the bottom of this agenda in order
|    to make sure that all RFEs get fairly discussed.
|
|     413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME
|     436067 splitting tech.char.class
|     473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|     482818 Simplify ToC content model
|     514435 Allow reference within refentry
|     541444 caption in mediaobjectco
|     558443 include storage info in metadata
|     562343 <packagename> element
|     564776 process/service/daemon/server markup
|     565637 Associate non-inline image with link
|     565716 URL and URN markup
|     565905 Add xrefstyle attribute
|     570068 Online values for pubwork
|     571996 Add 'namespace' inline element
|     571998 Add 'default' inline element
|     573419 Add bidirectional text overrides
|     573812 Allow blockinfo on blockquote
|     574880 Add annotation element
|     582705 Namespace convention for MathML Module
|     582822 VARARG and FUNCDEF together
|
|    The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|     431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|     472229 Allow HTML tables
|     522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element
|     609061 Add new Step sibling element Alternative
|
|    The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|     531851 Remove inline person name elements
|     532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200210/msg00005.html
[2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200207/msg00010.html
[3] http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/proposals/bothtables/
[4] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=582705&group_id=21935&atid=384107
[5] http://sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php?docid=9643&group_id=21935
[6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200207/msg00009.html
