| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 15 Jan 2002
| ========================================================
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Dick Hamilton
Nancy (Paisner) Harrison
Sabine Ocker
Michael Smith
Bob Stayton
Norman Walsh

Absent:

Dennis Evans

Resigned:

Patricia Gee-Best

Meeting called to order.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

No changes.

In the interest of expediency, this month's agenda already includes
the disposition of open action items.

Proposed: we'll discuss only those for which the disposition is
unknown or for which there are questions.

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items [5 min]
|
|     a. Norm to write a concrete proposal for linking in DocBook 5.0
|
|     Action: continued.
|
|     b. Norm to propose new "name and address" markup
|
|     Completed.[3] No action necessary.
|
|     c. Norm to post message to DocBook list about Bibliographys in Refentrys.
|
|     Completed.[4] Changed RFE #4355518 to pending; there's been no reply
|
|     d. Norm to post HTML Forms Module V1.1
|
|     Action: continued.
|
|     e. RFE 440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName: Norm to write concrete proposal
|
|     Action: continued.
|
|     f. Bob to clarify the refentry for link (RFE 441883).

      Completed.

|     g. Mike to propose explicit wording for the DocBook community web page
|        and the information to be collected.

      Continued.

|     h. Bob to write a concrete proposal for the missing elements to
|        map to Dublin Core.
|
|     Completed.[5]
|
|     i. Nancy to provide a list of places where we should allow more metadata.
|
|     Completed.[6]
|
| 5. OLink extension [10 min]
|
|    Related info:
|       RFE 492099 two new olink attributes[7]
|       Proposal for implementing olink[8]
|       Mike's messages on OLink[9]

Norm notes that the name 'targetid' may be too limiting. It would be nice,
in some contexts at least, to use other methods of location (XPointer child
sequences[11], for example).

Norm suggests reusing 'localinfo'

Bob notes that localinfo is really for local stuff, and this is a
"remote" info.

Proposed: we'll add two attributes, as proposed in RFE 492099, but the
exact name of the 'targetid' attribute will be decided in email.

Accepted.

Norm proposes the name 'targetptr' instead of 'targetid'.

| 6. Dublin Core metadata [10 min]

Proposed: we accept the proposal to provide full Dublin Core coverage in
DocBook. We'll add new elements for source, relation, and coverage.
The technical details of the content model will be discussed in email.

Action: Bob to propose explicit content models.

Accepted.

| 7. Metadata location [10 min]
|
|    Related info:
|       Nancy's summary[6]
|       RFE 487482 Add legalnoticeinfo[10]

Nancy's analysis (plus discussion during this telcon) resulted in the
following list of additional places for metadata:

  equation, example, figure, informalequation, informalexample,
  informalfigure, informaltable, itemizedlist, legalnoticeinfo, msgset,
  orderedlist, procedure, qandadiv, qandaentry, qandaset, table,
  variablelist

Action: Norm to post this list on the DocBook list for additional
review.

What about the name of the new metadata wrapper?

Three choices
  1. EquationInfo, ExampleInfo, etc.
  2. A single new element for all of these places
  3. Reuse ObjectInfo

Question: Does anyone feel one is absolutely right? No.

Question: Does anyone feel we should add EquationInfo, etc.? No.

In the discussion which followed, the general sentiment was that we
should choose 2.

Nancy proposes BlockInfo.

Proposed: We'll provide a single new wrapper, the name of which to be
decided by email.

Accepted.

| 8. DocBook V4.2 release schedule [5 min]

Feature complete freeze at next meeting.

Best possible schedule: Feature freeze 18 Feb, Beta on 19 Feb, vote to
make a Committee Specification on 19 Mar.

| 9. Review of open RFEs[2] [20 min]
|
|      To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
|         group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|      where XXXX is the RFE number.


The following items were discussed in a somewhat haphazard order.

|    440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName

     Action: Norm to write concrete proposal

|    470599 Need an imagedata to fit to max size

     Doesn't width="100%" scalefit="1" do this?
     Action: Norm to follow-up

|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype

     Follow-up on list? (Find msg in November)
     Action: Norm to follow-up again

|    486260 address in /article/articleinfo/author

     Dup of 480957.

|    487482 Add legalnoticeinfo

     Added to meta info discussion

|    488378 Support xml:lang

     We could do this in 4.2 because the prefix is fixed.
     Action: further discussion next time.

|    488740 Book allows SetIndex

     Rejected. No, it was intentional.

|    482818 Simplify ToC content model

     Action: make agenda item at next meeting

|    472229 Allow HTML tables

     Action: make agenda item at next meeting

|    480957 New name and address markup

     Action: make agenda item at next meeting

|    491629 Add <personname> to %gen.char.class

     Action: make agenda item at next meeting

|    493564 Email should not allow e.g Inlinegraphic

     Pending. Consider for parameter entity reorganization

|    498848 seglistitem should only require one seg

     Accepted.

|    501363 Need section.class param entity

     Accepted previously.

|    488368 Simplify single index entries

     Action: continued.

| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200112/msg00010.html
| [2] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?group_id=21935&atid=384107
| [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200112/msg00012.html
| [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200108/msg00081.html
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200201/msg00001.html
| [6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200112/msg00011.html
| [7] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=492099
| [8] http://www.sagehill.net/OlinkExtended.html
| [9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200111/msg00001.html
| [10] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=487482
[11] http://www.w3.org/TR/xptr/#child-seqs
