| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 19 Mar 2002
| ========================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 19 Mar 2002 at
| 01:00p EST (10:00a PST, 18:00GMT, 19:00BST, 20:00CEST, 03:00JST+) for
| one hour.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

  Dick Hamilton
  Nancy (Paisner) Harrison
  Paul Grosso (prospective)
  Sabine Ocker
  Michael Smith
  Bob Stayton
  Norman Walsh

Regrets

  Dennis Evans

Meeting called to order, 13:02EST.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

None.

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Norm to write a concrete proposal for linking in DocBook 5.0
|
|      Action: continued.
|
|    d. Norm to post HTML Forms Module V1.1
|
|      Completed[10]
|
|    c. RFE 440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName: Norm to write concrete proposal
|
|      Completed[4]
|
|    d. Bob to propose explicit content models for Dublin Core metadata
|
|      Completed[below]
|
|    e. Norm to post the list of additional places for metadata to the list.
|
|      Completed[5]
|
|    f. Norm to follow-up on RFE 470599 Need an imagedata to fit to max size
|
|      Completed[6]
|
|    g. Norm to follow-up on RFE 473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|
|      Continued.
|
|    h. Norm to put the following issues on the agenda for the next meeting:
|
|       RFE 488378 Support xml:lang on the agenda
|       RFE 482818 Simplify ToC content model
|       RFE 472229 Allow HTML tables
|       RFE 480957 New name and address markup
|       RFE 491629 Add <personname> to %gen.char.class
|
|       Completed[below]
|
| 5. Participation requirements for email ballots {5 min}

Put action closing date on the email ballot subject. Voting members
are expected to reply to all ballots, even if they indicate
abstention.

| 5b. Proposed: Make DocBook TC meetings 90 minutes instead of 60.

Accepted.

Action: Sabine to update the teleconference service.

| 6. Review of publication plan {5 min}

Feature freeze on 4.2 at this meeting.

| 7. Dublin Core metadata {10 min}
|
|    Bob's proposal[7]

Move to accept the proposal as amended[11]. Proposal passes without objection.

| 8. Metadata location {10 min}
|
|    The proposed list was:
|
|      equation, example, figure, informalequation, informalexample,
|      informalfigure, informaltable, itemizedlist, legalnotice, msgset,
|      orderedlist, procedure, qandadiv, qandaentry, qandaset, table,
|      variablelist
|
|    And there was no disagreement on the list. Of the proposed names,
|    "blockinfo" or "blockmeta" and "metainfo" were in a dead heat.

Proposal: adopt blockinfo. Proposal passes without objection.

| 8b. What are we going to do about HelpSet? {5 min}

Action: Dick to restart the discussion on the DocBook list.

Action: Dick to compare his internal customizations to the last
HelpSet proposal. There was some discussion following the last
proposal[12], which should be a good place to start.

Action: Nancy to review DITA for help authoring and summarize.

| 9. Review of open RFEs[2] {20 min}
|
|      To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
|         group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|      where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|     480954 Extend textobject to insert external files
|
|            Confirm that we accepted this.

Accepted.

|     480957 New name and address markup
|
|            Proposal[8]

Accepted.

|     491629 Add <personname> to %gen.char.class

Accepted.

|     440667 Affiliation lacks CorpName
|
|            Proposal[4]

Accepted.

Add 'consortium' to the enumerated list of values for class. Accepted.

|     472229 Allow HTML tables

Action: Paul to attempt a merged table model

Postpone until V4.3 at least.

|     482818 Simplify ToC content model

Postpone until V4.3 at least.

|     488378 Support xml:lang
|
|            We could do this in 4.2 because the prefix is fixed.

Postpone until there's more demand

|     522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element

Action: Mike to write a proposal for some form of generic annotation mechanism.

Meeting adjourned by lack of time, 14:00EST.

|     473365 Allow optional in funcprototype
|     488368 Simplify single index entries
|     495853 add 'caption' to listitem content-model
|     507975 revision should allow author*
|     514244 Allowing xref inside link
|     514425 Simplify info elements
|     514435 Allow reference within refentry
|     517604 Optional Title for GlossList
|     518074 More database classes
|     524225 iso-latin-5 ent
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200201/msg00072.html
| [2] http://www.openpublish.com.au/Index.html
| [3] http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xmlcharent/entities-2002-02-04.html
| [4] http://sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php?docid=9351&group_id=21935
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200201/msg00073.html
| [6] http://sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php?docid=9357&group_id=21935
| [7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200202/msg00005.html
| [8] http://sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php?docid=9354&group_id=21935
| [9] http://sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php?docid=9356&group_id=21935
[10] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200203/msg00063.html
[11] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200203/msg00010.html
[12] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200110/msg00082.html
