| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 20 Aug 2002
| ========================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 20 August 2002
| at 01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+)
| for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

  Paul Grosso
  Nancy Harrison
  Richard Lander
  Sabine Ocker
  Tim Teebken
  Norman Walsh
  Michael Smith [:30]

Regrets:

  Dennis Evans
  Bob Stayton
  Dick Hamilton

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Bob to write a more detailed proposal for instance-based generated xref text
     Continued
|    b. Bob to investigage RFE #558443 include storage info in metadata
     Completed[3]
|    c. Norm to get some sort of IPR template from Karl.
     Completed

ACTION: Norm to construct a template

|    d. Norm to try implementing annotations. Consider Paul's questions[2].
     Completed[4]
|    e. Dick to experiment with SiberSafe for help authoring background
     Continued
|    f. Norm to follow-up on RFE 473365: Allow optional in funcprototype
     Continued
|    g. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: <packagename> element
     Continued
|    h. Mike to follow-up on RFE 565716: URL and URN markup
     Completed
|    i. Norm and Paul to propose new, combined table markup for CALS+HTML
     Continued

ACTION: Norm to post the materials

| 5. Plans for 5.0.
|
|    Should we be more prescriptive? Should we add more inlines?

NW: Do we need to create general principals for when we add new markup?

NP: General reservations about adding more stuff. People are already
intimidated by the size and complexity. Can we look at other
architectures (TEI, DITA) for hints about how to proceed. We shouldn't
be more prescriptive than they are. It won't buy us more on interchange.

ACTION: Nancy to summarize what DITA and TEI have to say on the subject.

RL: Agree that in the inline space we're already pretty weighty. It's
easy for customizers to add and remove elements. The size may already
be a barrier to entry for users that aren't able to customize.

RL: On the flip side, there's a lot of intellectual capital in the
existing list.

NP: We might add one (or a few?) new inlines that we expect to treat like
systemitem to provide a rough level of semantics with new class values.

NW: So we should look at the collection of class values and see if we
can group them and make some new generic elements.

NP: Can we do this by generalizing some existing elements rather than
adding new ones.

ACTION: Norm to put this on the agenda for next month.

| 6. Discuss Help Authoring
|
|    Anything new to discuss?

RL: Most of the proposal was to create a hierarchy underneath set that
was particular to Help documentation and somewhat parallel to
article/chapter/etc.

RL: My first thought was that in terms of having DocBook be
appropriate for HTML Help documents, the meat of the matter isn't the
hierarchy, it's further down in the document.

RL: The sort of things that HTML Help has that are missing are
interactive type elements (expand/collapsing), really specialized
types of links (launching executables), fallbacks (if first isn't
found), and other UI-type things.

ACTION: Richard to provide some concrete examples of what might need to be added

SO: Active project to rethink the way that we authoring help related
topics. I asked for the 30,000 foot view of where they stand. What I
could ask them to do would be to provide the same sort of things from
the Sun perspective.

ACTION: Sabine to provide some concrete examples as well

TT: Our traditional help deliverable has been compiled HTML Help
files. But we also deliver print and web materials. The web type
deliverable is just as important. And as we move in this direction, we
can't forget about print. There are a lot more things that we can do
with the HTML Help 2 format.

| 7. Discuss generalized linking strategy
|
|    Update on xml-dev discussions and XHTML 2.0

NW: Update on xlink/XHTML status from xml-dev

| 8. Review of Requests for Enhancement {40 min}
|
|    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
          http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;
          group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|    where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|    571996 Add 'namespace' inline element

Proposed: add prefix, namespace, localname to class attribute of sgmltag.

Accepted.

|    571998 Add 'default' inline element

Unclear what 'default' would mean as an inline.

Proposed: add initializer to paramdef

Accepted.

ACTION: Norm to check with submitter to make sure this covers the use case.

|    573419 Add bidirectional text overrides

Add bdo everywhere?

ACTION: Paul to investigate what the content model needs to be and why simply
        using a nested phrase is insufficient.

|    573812 Allow blockinfo on blockquote

Proposed: add blockinfo to blockquote

Accepted.

|    574880 Add annotation element

RL: We did more than annotations, we did annotations and revision
marking. It seems like there are three ways: muddy the DTD, write pure
DTD and use tools to add annotations, allow a different namespace.

Continued in view of the fact that I only just posted my example this morning

|    582705 Namespace convention for MathML Module

ACTION: Norm to investigate

|    582822 VARARG and FUNCDEF together

Proposed: change funcprototype to

   (funcdef, (void|(paramdef*, varargs?)))

ACTION: Norm to post this solution so we have a month to talk about it

|    The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|    472229 Allow HTML tables
|    431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|
|    The following RFEs have been moved to the bottom of this agenda in order
|    to make sure that all RFEs get fairly discussed.
|
|    413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME

Waiting on linking.

|    425730 Create an SVG module

Done. Publish it.

ACTION: Norm to publish as a working draft

Accepted.

|    436067 splitting tech.char.class

Part of PE reorg.

|    482818 Simplify ToC content model

ACTION: Norm to republish the proposal for discussion next month

|    522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element

Waiting for resolution of RFE 574880 (annotations)

|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype

How about adding a choice attribute, like arg, with values 'opt' and
'req' with the default being req?

ACTION: Norm to propose this solution to the submitter and the list

|    558443 include storage info in metadata

I believe this is resolved with the biblio* elements[3].

Continued for final closure when Bob is here.

|    562343 <packagename> element

Continued.

|    565637 Associate non-inline image with link

Waiting on linking.

|    565716 URL and URN markup

MS: He does want to do something different with them presentationally, so he does
want to distinguish between them.

NW: URIs may be important enough to add a new inline. But perhaps in
light of our discussion under agenda item 5, we should wait and see
how the categories shake out.

Argument in favor of an element is so that it can have it's own class
attribute.

Continued until we do the classifications in item 5.

|    565905 Add xrefstyle attribute

Continued.

| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200207/msg00009.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00153.html
[3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200207/msg00010.html
[4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200208/msg00156.html
