| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 16 Jul 2002
| ========================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 16 July 2002 at
| 01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+)
| for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Dennis Evans
Paul Grosso
Dick Hamilton
Nancy Harrison
Sabine Ocker
Bob Stayton
Mike Smith
Norman Walsh

Absent:

Richard Lander
Tim Teebken

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items {5 min}
|
|    a. Bob to write a more detailed proposal for instance-based generated xref text

Continued.

|    b. Paul to start discussion of the unresolved processing expectations of annotations

Completed.[2]

|    c. Norm to start discussion of RFE #473365 Allow optional in funcprototype

Completed.[3]

|    d. Mike to ask the submitter of RFE #514435 about refpurpose

Completed.[4]

|    e. Mike to start discussion about refpurpose

Completed.[5]

|    f. Bob to investigage RFE #558443 include storage info in metadata

Continued.

| 5. Approve DocBook V4.2 {5 min}

Proposed: We accept DocBook V4.2 CR 3 as the official Committee
Specification of DocBook V4.2 and make that the current official
version of DocBook.

Accepted.

Proposed: We advance DocBook V4.2 for approval as an OASIS Standard at
our next opportunity.

Accepted.

| 6. Discuss future plans {10 min}

Proposed: Next should be V5.0.

Accepted.

Proposed: Next release should be released officially in XML/SGML DTDs, RELAX
NG, and W3C XML Schemas.

Accepted.

A 5.0 release might tentatively be scheduled for sometime around the
end of the year, but not before.

| 7. IPR Statements {5 min}

ACTION: Norm to get some sort of template from Karl.

| 8. Discuss Annotations {15 min}

ACTION: Norm to take a stab at implementation. Answer Paul's seven questions in
        light of that exercise.

| 9. Discuss Help Authoring {10 min}

Continued.

Mike suggested that reviewing SiberLogic's SiberSafe product might be informative.

ACTION: Dick to try it out

| 10. Review of Requests for Enhancement {40 min}
|
|    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|         http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;;
|         group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|    where XXXX is the RFE number.
|
|    473365 Allow optional in funcprototype

Continued.

ACTION: Norm to follow-up

|    495853 add 'caption' to itemizedlist content-model

Rejected: lack of response

|    558443 include storage info in metadata

Continued. (Bob is investigating.)

|    562343 <packagename> element

Package seems to be a highly overloaded term.

We have two issues here: packagename as an inline and the ability to
identify the package that a class (documented with classsynopsis)
belongs to.

WRT the inline, we'll add 'packagename' as class value on systemitem
for the inline case.

ACTION: Norm to continue discussion of packagename as part of
classsynopsis.

|    564776 process/service/daemon/server markup

We have a long-standing tension between inlines and class values on
system. Adding lots of elements seems fairly heavyweight. Adding class
values "hides" them from new users.

It's easy to add new class values, so we'll do that and let users who
are finding that markup inconvenient demonstrate that they are needed
broadly enough to warrant their own inline.

We'll add 'process', 'service', 'server', and 'daemon' as class values
to systemitem.

|    565637 Associate non-inline image with link

Leave pending until we settle our generalized linking questions.

|    565716 URL and URN markup

ACTION: Mike to follow-up to find out a little more about the users needs.

We'll add 'uri' to the list of class values on systemitem. Subclassing of the
URIs can be done role in the short term.

|    565905 Add xrefstyle attribute

Continued: Bob is investigating this.

|    570068 Online values for pubwork

Add class values: emailmessage, webpage, newsposting.

Adjourned.

|    571996 Add 'namespace' inline element
|    571998 Add 'default' inline element
|    573419 Add bidirectional text overrides
|    573812 Allow blockinfo on blockquote
|    574880 Add annotation element
|
|    The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|    472229 Allow HTML tables
|    431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|
|    The following RFEs have been moved to the bottom of this agenda in order
|    to make sure that all RFEs get fairly discussed.
|
|    413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME
|    425730 Create an SVG module
|    436067 splitting tech.char.class
|    482818 Simplify ToC content model
|    522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200206/msg00016.html

[2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00153.html
[3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200206/msg00005.html
[4] http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=514435&group_id=21935&atid=384107
[5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200207/msg00102.html
