DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 30 Jul 2003
========================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 30 Jul 2003 at
05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+,
02:30a India+) for 90 minutes.

| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Jeff Beal
Steve Cogorno
Paul Grosso
Dick Hamilton
Nancy Harrison [:10-]
Michael Smith
Bob Stayton
Norman Walsh

Regrets:

Scott Hudson

Absent:

Mark Johnson

1b. Welcome to Jeff Beal our newest TC member. Jeff will be a full
voting member at the September meeting.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items
|
|    a. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: &lt;packagename&gt; element
Continued.
|    b. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional
Continued.
|    c. Norm to ask Denis Evans for his opinions on REF #686733, allow
|       bibliography under &lt;refentry&gt;
Continued.
|    d. Bob to write a concrete proposal for marking up keycaps
Completed.
|    e. Mike to post a summary of URI/URN to the list
Completed.
|    f. Norm to post a summary of the Task content models as described.
Continued.
|    g. Norm to write some stylesheets to demonstrate annotations
Continued.
|    h. Norm to respond to Bob's message on bibliographic inlines to
|       see if we can get some email discussion going.
Continued.
|    i. Norm to describe how topical indexes might be created with
|       a custom stylesheet.
Continued.
|    j. Norm to post information about RELAX NG tools.
Continued.
|    k. Norm to describe how the prototype works and how it was constructed.
Continued.
|    l. Bob to post links to pages showing multiple refdescriptions.
Completed.
|    m. Bob to post this small list of inline biblio items to the DocBook list
Completed.
|
| 5. ISO Entities at W3C

[[[ NORM INCLUDE POINTER ]]]

Norm provides a summary of the history.

Proposed: we will abandon all work along these lines and adopt whatever the
          ISO/W3C standards are when they are published as specifications.

Accepted.

5b. Next DTD Release

Bob: we have lots of discussion about general direction. But we also
have a lot of small changes since 4.2 that could fit into a 4.3
release. Do we want to do that?

Dick: from our perspective, we probably wouldn't use 4.3. But it might
not be a bad idea.

Jeff: I do think a 4.3 release makes sense. The URI element seems to
be a reasonable thing to do.

Proposed: should we do a 4.3 SGML/XML DTD (only) release in the
          immediate future?

Accepted.

ACTION: Norm to begin putting it together.

| 6. RELAX NG discussions

How far should we go in using RELAX NG features (co-constraints, for example).

What do we do about normativity? What do we do about the fact that
documents will validate with some languages but not others? (e.g.,
valid against the DTD but not the RELAX NG grammar.)

Norm expresses the personal opinion that we should make the RELAX NG
schema normative and arrange for the other languages to be only more
relaxed (no pun intended). In other words, it will never be possible for
a version that validates against RELAX NG to fail against another schema
but the converse isn't true.

Some discussion of schema location hints.

What about namespaces? Then you'll be able to use RELAX NG but you
might not be able to use DTDs.

So, in fact, you could have documents that validate against RELAX NG
but not against DTDs.

Most people are going to continue to use the DTD for a while. 

Nancy: We might want to introduce the RELAX NG schema but leave the
DTD normative. We could plan to transfer the normativity to the schema
in the future.

Norm describes the general goodness of customizing RELAX NG grammars.

| 7. Multiple refnamedivs per refentry[2] (related to RFE #514435)

Bob: they are encoded, but we aren't showing them.

Bob: the point was that there are refentrys that have multiple
commands and you need to have different refpurposes.

Norm: we have historically had a very strict view of refentry as
mapping to UNIX manpages.

Steve: updating the SGML manpages turns out to be problematic because DTD
changes need to be reflected across the network. We may begin distributing
them in nroff again.

Proposal: change refentry to allow "refnamediv+" instead of "refnamediv"

Accepted.

| 8. Choicelist markup

ACTION: Mike to provide a better proposal for choicelist markup.

| 9. Annotations [3]

Continued until next month.

9b. Keycaps.

Proposed: Add the following attributes to keycap. The DTD will be structured
so that the primary list can be extended easily and the otherfunction can
be set to a list or removed entirely.

  function     (alt
               |control
               |shift
               |meta
               |escape
               |enter
               |tab
               |backspace
               |command
               |option
               |space
               |delete
               |insert
               |up
               |down
               |left
               |right
               |home
               |end
               |pageup
               |pagedown
               |other)        #IMPLIED
    
  otherfunction  CDATA        #IMPLIED

Accepted.

9c. URI/URN

- From http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200306/msg00051.html

Proposal: add a uri element with an optional type attribute (CDATA) for identifying
   URIs that are not ulinks. This element is part of tech.char.class. The processing
   expectation is that these are not active links.

Accepted.

| 10. Inline bibliography elements (related to RFE #679316) [4]

- From http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200306/msg00071.html

Norm argues against date, publisher, isbn, issn, and biblioid.

Nancy asks if ISBN is already inline. It isn't.

Initially proposed: add (only) orgname and corpname.

Bob proposes that since we plan to remove corpname in the future,
let's not add it to the inlines now.

Proposed: add only orgname to the inlines.

Accepted.

Chair notes that time is running out.

Any other business?

Next meeting: Wed 20 Aug 2003 at at 05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT,
22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+, 02:30a India+) for 90 minutes.

New meeting schedule is the third wednesday of every month.

We'll make RFEs a priority next month,

ADJOURNED

| 11. Review of Requests for Enhancement
|
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;
|       group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|       697374 marking up keycaps according to their semantics
|       740647 List or Table of Procedures.
|       742373 Splitting Segmented List
|       742624 refentry and bibliography
|       752632 Color control of CALS table ELEMENT
|       755966 Add interpolate element
|
|       436067 splitting tech.char.class 
|       473365 Allow optional in funcprototype 
|       482818 Simplify ToC content model 
|       514435 Allow reference within refentry 
|       541444 caption in mediaobjectco 
|       558443 include storage info in metadata 
|       562343 &lt;packagename&gt; element 
|       565637 Associate non-inline image with link 
|       565716 URL and URN markup 
|       573419 Add bidirectional text overrides 
|       582822 VARARG and FUNCDEF together 
|       623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup 
|       638456 RFE add a &lt;translator&gt; tag
|       655526 funcprototype enhancement
|       660044 Controlling line numbering in verbatims
|       679316 Allow orgname tag within paragraphs
|       686733 allow bibliography under &lt;refentry&gt;
|
|      The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|       413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME 
|       431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|       522552 Add title attribute to &lt;ulink&gt; element
|       574880 Add annotation element 
|       613293 Generalize programlisting 
|       621564 New element Task and children
|
|      The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|       531851 Remove inline person name elements
|       532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
|
|  ----
|  [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200306/msg00056.html
|  [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00005.html
|  [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00001.html
|  [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00006.html
