| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 17 Jun 2003
| ========================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Tuesday, 17 Jun 2003 at
| 01:00p EDT (10:00a PDT, 17:00GMT, 18:00BST, 19:00CEST, 02:00JST+,
| 10:30p India) for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Steve Cogorno
Paul Grosso
Dick Hamilton
Scott Hudson
Mark Johnson
Bob Stayton
Norman Walsh

Regrets:

Nancy Harrison

Absent:

Mike Smith

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting (as amended[1b] by Paul)

Accepted.

| 3. Review of the agenda

Accepted.

| 4. Review of open action items
|
|     a. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: &lt;packagename&gt; element
Continued.
|     b. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional
Continued.
|     c. Norm to ask Denis Evans for his opinions on REF #686733, allow
|             bibliography under &lt;refentry&gt;
Continued.
|     d. Bob to write a concrete proposal for marking up keycaps
Continued.
|     e. Mike to post a summary of URI/URN to the list
Continued.
|     f. Norm to post a summary of the Task content models as described.
Completed.
|     g. Norm to write some stylesheets to demonstrate annotations
Continued.
|     h. Norm to respond to Bob's message on bibliographic inlines to
|        see if we can get some email discussion going.
Continued.
|     i. Norm to describe how topical indexes might be created with
|        a custom stylesheet.
Continued.
|
| 5. Refactoring DocBook?

Norm explains what he means by refactoring.

Bob points out that we can add new XML features.

Steve observes that one of DocBook's goals is interchange and if we
make things incompatible then we'll lose that goal.

Bob: We're talking about bifurcating DocBook and maintaining the old
version for quite some time. It's similar to when DocBook a major
version roll anyway. But if there are tools that can help them make
the transition, if they need to, then it won't be that different.

Steve: We need to be very clear about why we're changing and what are
the goals of the project. One goal is interchange and another is a
documentation system. I used to think those went well together, but
now I'm not so sure.

Norm talks about the content model ambiguity problems.

Steve says we've already removed parameter entities from our DTD. The
models are supposed to be compliant, but the structure is very
different.

Steve: it sounds like the PEs are hard to maintain. Changing that may
be required.

Bob: it may be necessary to maintain two versions in parallel.

Mark: I agree, it seems like we'll need to keep the folks that are
committed to 4.x happy.

Steve: The relatively small changes that we're making from X to Y is
having a much larger impact than we ever imagined: on vendors, etc.

Mark: Debian is considering going to DocBook, but maybe we should wait
until 5.x.

Norm: We could say we're done. We could say that DocBook is finished
and close our committee.

Paul: That gets my vote.

Steve: I think it's an interesting idea and something that should be
given some thought. We've got our own DTD and we say we're compatible
with a certain version of DocBook.

Bob: I don't think that we should do this just because it's easier for
us to maintain. It must have significant benefits.

Bob: It sounds like we need to do some studying. If the DocBook TC
wants to go this route, then we all need to understand RELAX NG
better.

ACTION: Norm to post information about RELAX NG tools.

ACTION: Norm to describe how the prototype works and how it was
constructed.

We'll discuss this some more next month.

| 6. Multiple refnamedivs per refentry[2] (related to RFE #514435)

ACTION: Bob to post links to pages showing multiple refdescriptions.

We'll continue this next month after we've seen those.

| 7. Task/Topic[3]

Having discussed this on the list, consensus seems to be in favor. The actual
names chosen reflect what appears to be the best compromise possible.

The proposal is to add a task element as follows:

&lt;task&gt; would contain:

 title
 tasksummary?
 taskprerequisites?
 procedure
 example*
 taskrelated*

Where tasksummary, taskprerequisites, and taskrelated contain optional
titles and component.mix.

Accepted.

| 8. Choicelist markup

Continued.

| 9. Annotations [4]

Continued.

| 10. Inline bibliography elements (related to RFE #679316) [5]

Paul: the question is, does isbn or contractnum (or whatever) identify
the isbn or contract number of *this* document, or does it identify a
number inline. Those are very different semantics.

Steve: but the context tells you which it is.

Steve: we have a lot of inlines, but I don't think there's anything we
can do about that. Different groups will ignore different sets.

Bob: if you have the list open, many of them could occur inline.
Bibliocoverage, for example, is usually bibliographic metadata but it
could be discussed.

Norm: argues that bibliocoverage is not really appropriate

Bob: we could allow biblimixed in a paragraph.

Steve: that would separate the bibligraphic inlines from the others.

Bob: some of these may make sense as inlines, but we could include the
rest in bibliomixed.

More discussion

Norm: I propose

  corpname
  date
  orgname
  publisher

  I could be convinced to add

  isbn
  issn
  biblioid

ACTION: Bob to post this small list to the DocBook list for review.

ADJOURNED

| 11. Review of Requests for Enhancement
|
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;
|       group_id=21935&amp;atid=384107&amp;aid=XXXX
|
|       697374 marking up keycaps according to their semantics
|       740647 List or Table of Procedures.
|       742373 Splitting Segmented List
|       742624 refentry and bibliography
|       752632 Color control of CALS table ELEMENT
|
|       436067 splitting tech.char.class 
|       473365 Allow optional in funcprototype 
|       482818 Simplify ToC content model 
|       514435 Allow reference within refentry 
|       541444 caption in mediaobjectco 
|       558443 include storage info in metadata 
|       562343 &lt;packagename&gt; element 
|       565637 Associate non-inline image with link 
|       565716 URL and URN markup 
|       573419 Add bidirectional text overrides 
|       582822 VARARG and FUNCDEF together 
|       623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup 
|       638456 RFE add a &lt;translator&gt; tag
|       655526 funcprototype enhancement
|       660044 Controlling line numbering in verbatims
|       679316 Allow orgname tag within paragraphs
|       686733 allow bibliography under &lt;refentry&gt;
|
|      The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|       413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME 
|       431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability
|       522552 Add title attribute to &lt;ulink&gt; element
|       574880 Add annotation element 
|       613293 Generalize programlisting 
|       621564 New element Task and children
|
|      The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|       531851 Remove inline person name elements
|       532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
|
|  ----
|  [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200305/msg00136.html
|  [1b] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200305/msg00137.html
|  [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00005.html
|  [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200302/msg00050.html
|  [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00001.html
|  [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200303/msg00006.html
