| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 19 Nov 2003
| =======================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 19 Nov 2003 at
| 05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
| 02:30a India+) for 90 minutes.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Paul Grosso
Dick Hamilton
Larry Rowland (prospective)
Nancy Harrison
Michael Smith
Robert Stayton, scribe
Steven Cogorno
Scott Hudson
Norman Walsh, chair

Regrets:

Mark Johnson

Absent:

Jeff Beal
Paul Boos

Meeting called to order at 17:05 EST.

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting

Accepted.

| 3. Next meeting: 16 Dec 2003.

Correction: next meeting is Wednesday 17 Dec 2003.
We meet on Wednesdays now.

Action: Bob to fix the OASIS calendar dates.

| 4. Review of the agenda

No changes.

| 5. Review of open action items
|
|     a. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: <packagename> element
Continued.
|     b. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional
Continued.
|     c. Norm to describe how the prototype works and how it was
constructed.
Continued.
|     d. Mike to provide a better proposal for choicelist markup.
Continued.
|     e. Mike to reconsider the annotation problem and post his thoughts.
Continued.
|     f  Norm to post his stylesheet that attempts to convert existing
DocBook
|        documents to the "V5" style markup.
Continued.
|     g. Norm to add bibliolist to next agenda.
Completed.
|     h. Norm and Bob to coordinate secretarial duties.
Completed.
|     i. Norm to make firstterm and glossterm isomorphic.
Completed.
|     j. Dick to propose more general solution for caption in mediaobject.
Continued.
|     k. Steve to propose generalizing programlisting to the list.
Continued.


| 6. Action reminders? (Bob)

Action: Bob to send out action item reminders one week
before each meeting.

| 7. Improved citations proposal (RFE 810932).

Much discussion of detailed proposal submitted by
Markus Hoenicka, Bruce D'Arcus, and Peter Flynn.
Markus attended the call and answered questions.

Markus: improvements in citations are needed in academic
uses of DocBook. Most info for a citation is in the
biblioentry elements in the bibliography, but additional
info for a specific citation needs to be captured there.
They propose a new biblioref element, which is like xref
but has addtional bibliographic attributes and processing
expectations.

Steve: what about xref or link?

Markus: new attributes are specialized for bibliographic links.

Norm: why new attributes on citation as well?

Markus: a single citation can include multiple bibliorefs,
or no biblioref.

Nancy:  suggests not putting renderas on citation, but
for those rare cases use role.

Norm: putting human readable text in attributes like
caption is bad practice for internationalization reasons.

Mike: biblioref could contain a caption element.

Markus: or PCDATA, which would be the caption.

Paul: caption is to be deprecated in future DTDs.

Steve: suggests using a preprocessor to convert
raw citations to cooked citations.

Markus: Peter Flynn is doing something like that with XSLT.

Norm: suggests trying to meet 80% of the need.  Caption
could be part of the citation text.

Norm: proposes adding biblioref with no caption attribute.
It would be allowed wherever xref and link are allowed.

<!ELEMENT biblioref - - EMPTY>
<!ATTLIST biblioref linkend IDREF #REQUIRED
                        endterm IDREF #IMPLIED
                        unit NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
                        start NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
                        stop NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
                        renderas (full|author|year|title) #IMPLIED
>

Markus: will discuss this proposal with other list
members before the next meeting.

Action: Bob to add this item to the next meeting's agenda.

The Committee wishes to thank Markus for attending
the call and answering questions.

| 8. DocBook V4.3 CR1

Norm proposed designating the current DTD as 4.3CR1
and starting the 30 day comment clock.
Approved.

Action: Norm to publish 4.3CR1.

Action: Norm to produce a simplified 4.3CR1.

| 9. DocBook V5.0 (RELAX NG)

No news.

| 10. Bibliolist (from bibliography in refentry RFEs 742624 and 686733).
|     Considered by TC in 2001 [2].
|     Norm's proposal from 2001 [3].
|     Recent TC discussion in August 2003 [4].
|     Norm proposed bibliolist [5], one positive response from list.
|
|     <!ELEMENT bibliolist (blockinfo?,
|                       (%formalobject.title.content;)?,
|                       (biblioentry|bibliomixed)+)>
|
|     With common attributes.
|     To be allowed anywhere other sorts of lists are allowed.

Norm: reluctant to add a new element.  Adapt bibliography
instead?  It is already allowed in many places, including
sections.

Nancy: bibliography should remain as a hierarchical
element like a chapter.

Bob: if we had had bibliolist, it probably would have been
used instead of bibliography in section and the like.

Proposal: adopt Norm's bibliolist element, and permit in
same locations as other lists.  Approved.
Won't be added to version 4.3.

The committee expressed a desire to
remove bibliography from sections in V5,
and to consider more broadly the usage of
glossary, lot, and similar hierarchical elements.


| 11. Review of Requests for Enhancement

No time. Next meeting to set aside more time for RFEs.

Action: Bob to add agenda item to reconsider the policy
for backwards incompatible changes.

Meeting adjourned at 6:30 EST.

|
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
|       group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|       543064 JavaObject tag
|       675024 form, script, applet support
|       698026 cannot embed <superscript> within <guibutton>
|       702185 add procedure as child of para
|       711815 Tagging for subtler breaks or "pauses" within a chapter
|       742373 Splitting Segmented List
|       752632 Color control of CALS table element
|       798616 syntax="" or notation="" needed for code listings
|       828720 'spacing' attr. for 'variablelist'
|
|
|      The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|       413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
|       431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
|       522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element (Mike, annotations)
|       541444 caption in mediaobjectco (Dick)
|       562343 <packagename> element (Norm)
|       565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
|       574880 Add annotation element (Mike)
|       613293 Generalize programlisting (Steve)
|       623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup (Mike)
|
|      The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|       531851 Remove inline person name elements
|       532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
| - ---
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200310/msg00082.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200108/msg00067.html
| [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200108/msg00081.html
| [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200308/msg00037.html
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200309/msg00061.html
