/ "Bob Stayton" <bobs@sagehill.net> was heard to say:
| DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Agenda: 15 December 2004
| =============================================================
|
| The DocBook Technical Committee will meet on Wednesday, 15 December 2004 at
| 05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
| 03:30a India+) for 90 minutes.
|
| The teleconference phone number is +1.865.524.6352. The participant
| code is 7386368. Attendance at teleconferences is restricted to members
| (and prospective members) of the committee.
|
| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Dick
Larry
Paul
Jirka
Norm
Adam
Michael
Steve
Mark [xx:30-]

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

Accepted.

| 3. Next meeting: 19 January 2004

26 January 2005. (NOT 19 January)

| 4. Review of the agenda.

Accepted.

| 5. Review of open action items
|
|    a. Norm to write second draft charter.

Proposal: Accept the charter I posted today, amended per Michael
Smith's message, and submit to OASIS.

Accepted.

|    b. Mike to write up the DTD test suite process.

Completed.

|    c. Bob to review minutes to ensure new features are tested.

Continued.

| 6. Meeting dates for 2005:
|     19 January

      26 January!

|     16 February
|     16 March
|     20 April
|     18 May
|     15 June
|     20 July
|     17 August
|     21 September
|     19 October
|     16 November
|     21 December

Accepted.

| 7. Status of DTD version 4.4.  [2]

ACTION: Norm to make a new CR release with Jirka's xml/docbook.cat patch.

ACTION: Michael Smith to move the module tests into separate subdirectories,
        one for each module.

ACTION: Michael Smith to move the template.xml file out of 'tests'

ACTION: Michael Smith to move the test suite process so that it's a target
        in the tests/Makefile.

| 8. OASIS webpages status. [3]

Norm can send them a tar file to put online.

Mary said they may be able to improve the process. I'll keep the TC posted.

| 9. Annotation proposal (Mike).  [4] [5]
|     Continued from previous meeting.

Norm summarizes the situation: we agreed to an <annotation> element
for longer annotations an an <alt> element for shorter, accessibility
annotations.

ACTION: Norm to write a concrete summary of the annotation proposal.

| 10. Accessibility.  [6] [7]
|     Table rowhead attribute.
|     Continued from previous meeting.

We want to align with DITA. Which is good because DITA wants to align
with us :-)

Proposal:

  Add rowheader attribute to the table element. This attribute can indicate
  either that first column of table contains row headers (value "firstcol"), or
  that there are no row headers in a table (value "norowheader").

  <!ATTLIST table
             rowheader (firstcol | norowheader) #IMPLIED>

  Processing tools can use this information to create more accessible output
  (e.g. decorate table cells with scope and/or header attributes in the case of
  HTML output).

This is aligned with DITA. We would put this attribute on table and
informaltable.

Accepted.

Should we do this for 4.4?

Yes. Accepted.

| 11. Discuss guidelines for accepting or rejecting requests. [8] [9]
|     Continued from previous meeting. 

Previously, we said that it might make sense to base some of this
discussion on our charter. This item is continued until after our
charter is approved.

| 11b. Status of 5.0

Customers are asking about RELAX NG and W3C XML Schema versions of 4.4
and what is the future for 5.0?

For 4.4, you can get RELAX NG and W3C XML Schemas already.

ACTION: Norm to post a summary of pointers to changes and the stuff
I've written about DocBook V5.0.

Pointer to a version of The Definitive Guide that shows the content
models in "expanded RELAX NG":

  http://docbook.org/tdg/en/html-ng/docbook.html

Norm's plan: release a 5.0 alpha in January, try to move to 5.0 by end
of 2005.

ACTION: Norm to post to the list that 5.0 will probably not have SGML
support.

| 12. Review of Requests for Enhancement
|
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
|       group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|       1071686 Add an isrn element 

Proposal: add an isrn class to biblioid and not a new element.

Accepted.

|       1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 

The problem is that corpauthor is mixed content and I wouldn't want to add
address and friends to corpauthor directly.

ACTION: Norm to think about how to extend corpauthor

[...]

Any other business

None

ADJOURNED

| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200411/msg00008.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200412/msg00000.html
| [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200411/msg00003.html
| [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00003.html
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00005.html
| [6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200408/msg00002.html
| [7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200408/msg00003.html
| [8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00043.html
| [9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00046.html

                                        Be seeing you,
                                          norm

-- 
Norman Walsh <ndw@nwalsh.com>      | Ego's not important. Cool art is
http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/ | important.--Neil Gaiman
Chair, DocBook Technical Committee |