| Agenda
|
| 1. Roll call

Gary Cornelius
Paul Grosso
Dick Hamilton
Scott Hudson
Mark Johnson
Mike Smith
Norman Walsh, chair and scribe

Regrets:

None

Absent:

Jeff Beal
Steve Cogorno
Nancy Harrison
Larry Rowland
Bob Stayton

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous (November) meeting
|      Note: there was no quorum for the December meeting.

Accepted.

| 3. Next meeting: 18 Feb 2004.

No regrets.

| 4. Review of the agenda (set aside more time for RFEs?)

See 5a and 7b.

| 5. Review of open action items
|
|     a. Norm to follow-up on RFE 562343: <packagename> element

ACTION: Transferred to Mark.

|     b. Norm to write better documentation for option/optional
Continued.
|     c. Norm to describe how the prototype works and how it was constructed.

Norm described the system. It's much simpler now.

In CVS under sourceforge.net/projects/docbook/ it's in docbook/docbook/relax-ng

I've described some of the choices I've made on http://norman.walsh.name/

Completed.

|     d. Mike to provide a better proposal for choicelist markup.
Continued.
|     e. Mike to reconsider the annotation problem and post his thoughts.
Continued.
|     f  Norm to post his stylesheet that attempts to convert existing DocBook
|        documents to the "V5" style markup.

It's in the CVS repository. Also in CVS is the set of tests (from the DocBook
tests collection). The tests in tests/skip are the ones that I don't believe
can be converted automatically.

|     g. Dick to propose more general solution for caption in mediaobject.
Continued.
|     h. Steve to propose generalizing programlisting to the list.
Continued.
|     i. Bob to send out action item reminder mail.
|         COMPLETED.
|     j. Norm to produce simplified 4.3CR1 DTD.
|         COMPLETED.

5a. Complain about Kavi

By unanimous consent, we do wish to lodge some sort of complaint.

- The documents in the system, as exposed to non-members is really useless
- The fact you cant link between documents is really bad
  - It's impossible to publish schemas that need such
- System identifiers for documents as they are updated; the URLs are not
  practical for publication as normative references to material
- It's impossible to predict what the URIs are going to be
- MIME email issues
- No internal navigation for TCs that want to maintain more sophisticated pages
- This makes the OASIS site less useful. 
- It's hard to find things
- People are moving documents off the TC site in order to address these issues.

ACTION: Norm to draft a message for TC approval

The TC will decide by email vote to send the message officially.

Accepted.

| 6. biblioref proposal [1]
|    (formerly Improved citation support, RFE 810932).

The replies to our previous message never made it to the docbook-tc list.

ACTION: Mike to forward the responses to our previous message to our list.

ACTION: Norm to make sure this is on our agenda for next month.

Apologies to the biblioref proposers for this delay.

| 7. DocBook V4.3 CR1

Norm: I published DocBook V4.3CR3 today.

Scott: Did you include the changes to the attributes on caption?

Norm: Drat. No.

ACTION: Norm will publish CR4 with the required changes to caption.

ACTION: Norm to republish Simplified 4.3CR4.

7b. Additions to Simplified

Norm: I have reservations about making Simplified bigger.

Mark: I agree.

Scott: Anchor seems like the critical one, the others I can add in a
       customization layer.

Norm: I think I could see adding anchor, if that was enough.

Scott: I think that would be acceptable.

Proposal: Add anchor to Simplified DocBook.

Accepted.

ACTION: Norm to make it so.

| 8. DocBook V5.0 (RELAX NG)

Norm gave a report on his design experiments. The summary: it feels
like we're going in the right direction.

ADJOURNED

| 9. Reconsider the policy for backwards incompatible changes.
|
| 10.  Revisit addition of 'language' attribute
| to programlisting and synopsis (use MIME?).
| See [2] for the original RFE 798616.
| See [3] for the minutes of the decision.
| See [4] and [5] for further discussion about it.
|
| 11. Review of Requests for Enhancement
|
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
|
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
|       group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
|
|       543064 JavaObject tag
|       675024 form, script, applet support
|       698026 cannot embed <superscript> within <guibutton>
|       702185 add procedure as child of para
|       711815 Tagging for subtler breaks or "pauses" within a chapter
|       742373 Splitting Segmented List
|       752632 Color control of CALS table element
|       798616 syntax="" or notation="" needed for code listings
|       828720 'spacing' attr. for 'variablelist'
|
|      The following RFEs are awaiting action items
|
|       413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
|       431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
|       522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element (Mike, annotations)
|       541444 caption in mediaobjectco (Dick)
|       562343 <packagename> element (Norm)
|       565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
|       574880 Add annotation element (Mike)
|       613293 Generalize programlisting (Steve)
|       623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup (Mike)
|
|      The following RFEs are identified as V6.0 or later
|
|       531851 Remove inline person name elements
|       532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
| - ---
|
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200311/msg00014.html
| [2]
| http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=798616&group_id=21935&atid=384107
| [3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200309/msg00037.html
| [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200401/msg00011.html
| [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200401/msg00019.html
