DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 18 August 2004
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 18 August 2004 at
05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+,
02:30a India+) for 50 minutes.

1. Roll call

Present: Steven Cogorno, Gary Cornelius, Paul Grosso,
Dick Hamilton, Nancy Harrison, Scott Hudson, Mark Johnson,
Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh

Regrets: none

Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Mike Smith

2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting
   as amended by [2] and [3].

3. Next meeting: 15 September 2004.

   No regrets.

4. Review of the agenda.

   Added Karl Best's mail as item 5i.

5. Review of open action items

  a. Mike to provide a better proposal for choicelist markup.
     CONTINUED.

  b. Bob to identify elements in DocBook that correspond to
     valid locations of HTML forms in HTML output.
     CONTINUED.

  c. Scott will investigate places where
     anchor should be permitted.
     COMPLETED.

  d. Norm to generate web pages for 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4x.
     CONTINUED.

  e. Norm to produce 4.4b2 with W3C entity sets.
     CONTINUED.

  f. Norm to fix nested HTML tables for 4.4b2.
     CONTINUED.

  g. Mark to summarize the processes that Debian uses for guidelines
     for accepting or rejecting requests.
     CONTINUED.

  h. Larry to write up a summary of accessibility and send it in email,
     including links to the sites that offer tools and tests for
accessibility.
     COMPLETED.

5i. Karl Best's email on committee status.

    Karl's mail to the TC indicates we need some changes to our
    charter, as well as a list of deliverables.

    ACTION: Norm to write a draft charter.

6. Status of DTD version 4.4 beta

   No new status.

7. Annotation proposal (Mike).  [4] [5]

   Postponed.

8. Discuss guidelines for accepting or rejecting requests.

Mark: No formal guidelines found at Debian.

Bob: We have our guidelines about backwards-incompatible changes
requiring sufficient notice before release.  We also
require use cases.  Are we still focused on technical
documentation, despite people using DocBook in other
contexts?

Norm: Our charter defines our scope, so perhaps that would help.
Want to avoid "scope creep".

Nancy: DITA and other extensions could be possible without
extending the scope.

Norm: a paper by Len Bullard and Sebestian Rahtz at Extreme
Markup 2004 showed how to combine TEI and DocBook elements.
This will be easier in 5.0 using RelaxNG.

Nancy: we have an informal guideline that we require
stronger justification when the request is coming from
a single source rather than multiple sources.

Norm: Suggests we do the charter first, and that will
help to develop guidelines.

Gary: Would ISO 9000 or something like it help?

ACTION: Gary to investigate ISO 9000.

9. html:form should be available in more places
   than in %divcomponent.mix;  [6] [7]

   Postponed.

10. Accessibility.  [8] [9]

Larry's mail described various options for markup
and processing.  Many seemed acceptable to the group.
Norm suggested we finish the annotations proposal,
because some of the accessibility options might
work with annotations.  Larry agreed.

Norm invites all participants to contribute to
the annotations proposal to be discussed at
the next meeting.

Meeting adjourned at 5:50 EDT
############################

11. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      973446 Replace Footnote with Annotation
      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element (Mike, annotations)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      574880 Add annotation element (Mike)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup (Mike)

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
- ---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200407/msg00020.html
[2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200407/msg00021.html
[3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200408/msg00000.html
[4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00003.html
[5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00005.html
[6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-apps/200406/msg00081.html
[7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200404/msg00032.html
[8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200408/msg00002.html
[9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200408/msg00003.html
