DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 16 February 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 16 February 2005 at
05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
03:30a India+).

1. Roll call

   Present: Steve Cogorno, Paul Grosso,
   Nancy Harrison, Scott Hudson, Dick Hamilton,
   Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh 
   
   Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Gary Cornelius, Mark Johnson, Mike Smith
   
2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 16 March 2005

4. Review of the agenda.
    Added 9a.  DITA.
    Added 9b.  Mathphrase.

5. Review of open action items

   a. Mike to move the test suite process so that it's a target
      in the tests/Makefile.
      CONTINUE.

   b. Norm to write a concrete summary of the annotation proposal.
      COMPLETED.

   c. Norm to post a summary of pointers to changes and the stuff
      I've written about DocBook V5.0.
      COMPLETED.

   d. Norm to write a spec of V5 changes.
      CONTINUE.

   e. Nancy to rewrite the proposal and send it to the docbook
      mailing list for discussion.
      COMPLETED.

   f. Norm to get OASIS namespace naming rules.
      CONTINUE.

   g. Norm to publish DTD 4.4 and make the announcement.
      COMPLETED.

   h. Norm to update the OASIS webpages.
      COMPLETED.

   i. Larry to write a proposal for text math in equation elements.
      COMPLETED.

6.  DTD V5 development status.

Norm circulated to committee members a draft spec for
DocBook V5.0 to initiate discussion.  He noted these features:
  - It isn't all that different from 4.4.
  - The use of xml:id may be controversial.
  - Linking is ubiquitous, and may replace existing linking elements.
  - title elements will be either a child or sibling of info, but not both.
  - some elements are slated for removal.

ACTION: Norm to publish a version of the 5.0 spec before
the next meeting.

7. Task markup as sibling to sections [2] [3]

This item has been tabled indefinitely.

8. Annotation proposal (Mike).  [4] [5]
    Continued from previous meeting.

Norm published a proposal to the mailing list, which stimulated
much discussion.  One suggestion to make an annotation a sibling
of the element being annotated was not accepted, because it
complicated database chunking and stylesheet architecture.
Also, we currently have metadata as a child of the
element it is annotating (such as bookinfo in book).

Another suggestion was putting annotations inside info
or other locations and using ID IDREFS to associate them
with the content.  If not centralized, may need to add an
annotationref element (like footnoteref) to allow multiple
links to an annotation.

The group decided to follow the email discussion and bring
this up again at the next meeting.

9. Discuss guidelines for accepting or rejecting requests. [6] [7]

Nancy's suggestions were approved.  The guidelines will be
included in the email posting guidelines and on the
SourceForge RFE submission page.

ACTION: Norm to add to email guidelines and SourceForge page.

9a.  DITA
The OASIS committee has released a draft spec for DITA 
(Darwin Information Typing Architecture).  The documents
can be downloaded:

http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/11428/cd1.zip

All committee members should read the spec to see what
connections there are with DocBook.

9b. mathphrase

Larry described his proposal for a mathphrase element
for simple math. The group decided to remove varname 
and other elements that would require redefining to fit
into a math equation.  These content models were approved:

equation ::=
(blockinfo?,
 (title,titleabbrev?)?,
 (informalequation|
  (alt?,
   (graphic+|mediaobject+|
    (mathphrase)+))))

informalequation ::=
(blockinfo?,
 (alt?,
  (graphic+|mediaobject+|
   (mathphrase)+)))

mathphrase ::=
(#PCDATA|superscript|subscript|emphasis)*

This will be added to V5.0.  It may be added to V4
if there is another release before 5.0.


10. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1095721 Allow text in inlineequation 

Covered in item 9b.

      1116144 Support inline term definitions 

Norm described his proposal for inline term definitions
(see the RFE).  It would permit an author to mark
up a term definition in place, which would be output
with formatting applied.  He pointed to W3C specs as an
example. It is a useful style of writing definitions that
differs from back-of-book glossary.  If properly written,
the definitions could also be collected into a back-of-book
glossary.  The current glossentry could not be used 
for inline usage because its glossdef element contains
block elements.  The group was inclined to adopt the
proposal as described in Norm's updated proposal. [8]

ACTION: Bob to add to next month's agenda for approval.
     
Meeting adjourned.
--------------------------------------------------------------

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      973446 Replace Footnote with Annotation 
      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element (Mike, annotations)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      574880 Add annotation element (Mike)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup (Mike)

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections 
      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 
      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname 
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
- ---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200501/msg00007.html
[2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200501/msg00000.html
[3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200501/msg00002.html
[4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00003.html
[5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00005.html
[6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00043.html
[7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00046.html
[8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200502/msg00042.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
