DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 20 July 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 20 July 2005 at
05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+,
02:30a India+) for 50 minutes.

The teleconference phone number is +1.865.524.6352. The participant
code is 7386368. Attendance at teleconferences is restricted to members
(and prospective members) of the committee.

Agenda

1. Roll call

Present: Paul Grosso, Dick Hamilton, Nancy Harrison,
Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh

Regrets: Steve Cogorno, Scott Hudson, Mark Johnson,

Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Gary Cornelius

2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 31 August 2005

Still agreed on this changed date for the next meeting.

4. Review of the agenda.

Add item 10b: XIncludes in 5.0.

5. Review of open action items

   a. Norm to obtain OASIS namespace naming rules.
      COMPLETED.

   b. Norm to publish a version of the 5.0 spec before the next meeting.
      COMPLETED.

   c. Norm to publish 4.5 CR1.
      COMPLETED.

6.  Any update on new OASIS attendance rules?

No news.

7.  Adopt DTD version 4.5 as Committee Specification.

Moved and seconded to adopt the candidate release
of DocBook 4.5 DTD as a Committee Specification.
No objections.

ACTION: Norm to start the OASIS process to make this
a Commitee Specification.

[Norm learned later that we should have been putting it
up for public review before adopting it as a Committee Spec.]

8.  OASIS Artifact Identification Requirements [2]
    (naming rules)

Norm suggested that everyone read the draft spec and send
comments to this mailing list:

oasis-member-discuss@lists.oasis-open.org

9.  Norm's DocBook V5 draft specification [3]

No comments on the draft so far.

ACTION: Norm to publish the draft as "5.0 alpha spec"
on the OASIS website and docbook.org.

10.  simplesect issues

Discussion of the usage of simplesect in content models.
Curently any simplesect elements must be at the end
of the section container, and may not be followed
by other sibling sections that are not simplesect.

Decided to experiment with allowing following siblings
to be normal sections.

ACTION: Norm will add it to a new test release of 5.0.

10b.  XIncludes in 5.0.

Jirka expressed the need for validation of a document
before XIncludes are resolved, as well as after.
This is particularly useful for editing software.
We agreed that a document could not be considered
fully valid unless the XIncludes are resolved, but that
as a convenience it would be nice to validate before
XIncludes are resolved.

Norm said the content models can be changed to include
XInclude elements.  Jirka suggested that this be
a separate schema with XInclude module, and that it
be available in the standard DocBook schema distribution.
It would not be a normative standard, but just
a convenience for users.

ACTION:  Norm will add it to the new test release of 5.0.

11. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1190435 Add rule tag
      1190436 Add requirement tag
      1194196 <qandaset> and <qandadiv>

No response to queries for additional information on
the preceding three RFEs.

ACTION: Bob to ask each of the requestors again.

      1226523 abbrev/acronym expansion(amplification)

The group felt that the new alt and annotation markup
in V 5.0 satisfied this request.  There are no plans
to add them to version 4.

      1237762 Allow para+ in formalpara

The group felt that allowing multiple paras
in formalpara would create confusion as to the
boundary of the formalpara.  Some felt the
existing sidebar element should be used for that purpose.

ACTION: Norm will follow up with the requestor for
more use case information.

Meeting adjourned at 5:50 EDT.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections
      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc.
      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200506/msg00037.html
[2]
http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/entity-resolution/200506/msg00016.html
[3] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200506/msg00007.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
