The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 21 December 2005 at
05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
03:30a India+).

| Agenda

Scribe: Norm

| 1. Roll call

  Present: Norm, Larry, Jirka, Paul, Scott, Mark, Dick, Nancy [:20]
  Regrets: Bob, Steve

  Need 5 out of 10 for quorum.

  New prospective members: Kay Ethier, Gershon Joseph
  No longer voting: Adam, Mark

  Absent : Gary, Adam

| 2. Accepting the minutes[1] of the previous meeting, including
|    Norm's amendment [2].

Accepted. For the record: 5 ayes and no nays.

| 3. Next meeting: 18 January 2005

Accepted. Regrets: Scott (tentatively), Jirka

| 4. Review of the agenda.

Accepted.

| 5. Review of open action items
| 
|     a.  Norm to pursue the process of making DTD 4.5
|         an OASIS standard.

Now that we've approved the minutes, Norm will make the next steps happen.

|     b.  The Java language has added java annotations, and Norm
|         wondered how these would be marked up in a synopsis.
|         The C# language also has annotations, Jirka pointed out.
| 
|         ACTION: Norm to investigate this issue some more.

Continued.

|     c.  Nancy to email info on XML address standard xNAL.

Completed. [4]

|     d.  Jirka to write up the customization process for
|         MathML and SVG support in DocBook 5.

Completed; working with Norm to get it published

|     e.  Norm to write up a description of how authors
|         should handle elements that have been dropped.

Continued.

|     f.  Norm to fix equation content model in 5.0.

Completed.

|     g.  Bob to post a list of default attributes in 4.x.

Completed.

| 6.  Default attribute values in DocBook 5.

Continued until Bob is present.

|     Other DocBook 5 issues.

See issues below.

Proposed: Publish DocBook 5.0b2 when these changes have been made.

| 7.  DocBook and DITA interoperability session at 
|     OASIS Symposium 2006, 9-12 May 2006, San Francisco. [3]

DocBook and DITA TCs will demonstrate interoperability. More news when
the schedule is published. Proposals were due yesterday and we did get
them in on time, I believe.

| 8. Review of Requests for Enhancement
| 
|     To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):
| 
|       http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
|       group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX
| 
|       1306027  Support for annotations in synopsis elements

Continued.

|       1358844  allow multiple imageobject in imageobjectco

There's some concern about whether the coordinates could really be
expected to be the same.

Norm: They're CALSPair coordinates which are percentages so it might
work.

Larry: If the coordinates are really reusable, it doesn't look like a
bad idea.

ACTION: Norm to investigate the submitter's example.

|       1380477  Allow area to inherit from areaset

See norm's message:
http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200512/msg00021.html

Larry: seems reasonable; how do you handle an areaset with an id and one
of its children with an id. The child could have seperate linking.

Accepted.

|--
| [1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200511/msg00022.html
| [2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200512/msg00011.html
| [3] http://www.oasis-open.org/events/symposium_2006/
  [4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200512/msg00016.html
  [5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200512/msg00012.html
