DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 22 June 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 22 June 2005 at
05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+,
02:30a India+) for 30 minutes.

1. Roll call

Present: Steve Cogorno, Gary Cornelius, Paul Grosso, Nancy Harrison,
Scott Hudson, Mark Johnson, Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton,
Norman Walsh

Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Dick Hamilton

2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 20 July 2005

No regrets.
The August meeting will be moved from the 17th to the 31st.

4. Review of the agenda.

No changes.

5. Review of open action items

   a. Norm to obtain OASIS namespace naming rules.
      CONTINUE.

   b. Norm to publish a version of the 5.0 spec before the next meeting.
      CONTINUE.

   c. Bob to request more information from the proposer of RFEs 1190435
      1190436.
      COMPLETED.

   d. Norm to raise RFE 1194196 on the docbook mailing list
      and ask the proposer to participate.
      COMPLETED.

6.  Update on new OASIS attendance rules.

Still under discussion at OASIS, but no new rules have been
proposed yet.  Continue this item.

7.  DTD 4.5 status.

Norm announced the availability of beta version 4.5b1 
on 5 May.  Not much feedback from the mailing list yet.

Responding to a request, Norm will add a comment to each element
declaration in the DTD to indicate the element's purpose.

The Committee adopted a resolution to publish Candidate Release 1
of DTD version 4.5. The Committee intends to adopt the CR
as a Committee Specification at the July meeting, and then
start the process of making it a full OASIS specification.

ACTION: Norm to publish 4.5 CR1.

8.  Schema V5 development status.

The development version is stable for now.  Norm is close
to completing a specification. When the spec is available
the Committee will formally begin discussing version 5,
using the development version as a test bed.

9. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1190435 Add rule tag 
      1190436 Add requirement tag 
      1194196 <qandaset> and <qandadiv> 

For all three of these RFEs, more information has been
requested from the request originator.  So far, there
has been no response, so these items will be continued.

No new RFEs.

The meeting was adjourned at 5:30 EDT.

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup 

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections 
      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 
      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname 
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200505/msg00002.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
