DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 31 August 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 31 August 2005 at
05:00p EDT (02:00p PDT, 21:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 06:00JST+,
02:30a India+) for 60 minutes.

Agenda

1. Roll call

Present: Paul Grosso, Dick Hamilton, Scott Hudson,
Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh

Regrets: Steve Cogorno, Mark Johnson

Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Nancy Harrison

2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 12 October 2005

NOTE: the September meeting has been cancelled, and the
October meeting has been moved up a week.

4. Review of the agenda.

Two additions:
  4b. Jane Harnad.
  8b. DocBook 5 toolchain.

4b.  Jane Harnad of OASIS presented information about the
OASIS Adoption Forum taking place in London on 17 October 2005.
She urged all members to attend.  Information is available here:

http://www.oasis-open.org/events/adoption_forum_2005/


5. Review of open action items

   a. Norm to start the OASIS process to make this 
      a Commitee Specification.
      COMPLETED

   b. Norm to publish the draft as "5.0 alpha spec"
      on the OASIS website and docbook.org.
      COMPLETED

   c. Norm will add simplesect changes to a new test release of 5.0.
      COMPLETED

   d. Norm will add XInclude module to a new test release of 5.0.
      COMPLETED

   e. Bob to ask each of the requestors again about three of
      the current RFEs.
      CONTINUED

   f. Norm will follow up with the requestor for
      "1237762 Allow para+ in formalpara"
      to get more use case information.
      COMPLETED

6.  New OASIS attendance rules.

Bob described the new OASIS attendance rules.  Committee membership
is no longer governed by attendance, but voting rights are.
The rules are simpler:  miss two meetings and you lose your
voting rights.  Attend two meetings in a row, and your
voting rights are restored at the next meeting.

Paul inquired about whether these affect quorum, and a later
check of the rules showed that:

  a. A quorum is defined as "the number of Voting Members
     that must be present in a meeting so that Resolutions
     and decisions may be made". A quorum is more than
     half of the Voting Members.

  b. Attendance at a meeting that does not achieve quorum
     still counts toward maintaining or restoring a
     member's voting rights.

7.  DTD version 4.5 Public Review Draft.

The public review of DocBook 4.5 DTD started 04 August 2005, and 
ends 03 October 2005.  No comments have been received so far.

8.  Next steps for DocBook 5.

Norm added XIncludes and simplesect changes to the 'pto' release
of DocBook 5.  He suggested the Committee prepare an
alpha Working Draft.  We decided to put together a package
by the Oct 12 meeting:

ACTION: Norm to write a how-to on converting 
documents from version 4 to 5.

ACTION: Jirka to write a description of the current state of tools
that work with 5.0 and RNG.

ACTION: Dick to read the current DocBook 5
spec to make sure it is all ok.

ACTION: Dick to make sure the pending RFEs are in the current schema.

ACTION: Norm to make sure the namespace URI works with RDDL so
users get something back if they query the address.


9. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1190435 Add rule tag 
      1190436 Add requirement tag 
      1194196 <qandaset> and <qandadiv> 

Bob did not complete his action item to query the above
three RFEs for further information.

      1237762 Allow para+ in formalpara 

Norm queried for further information, but we need to
wait to see if there is a response.

      1245781  new <publication> element  

Norm responded to this RFE.
ACTION: Norm to follow up with the submittor of this RFE.

      1264002  Add Security Classification tags  

Norm responded that the security attribute should take care
of this.  He suggested waiting until next meeting to close it.


Meeting adjourned.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup 

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections 
      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 
      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname 
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
- ---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200507/msg00010.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
