DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 18 May 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday,
18 May 2005, achieving quorum at 05:30p EDT (02:30p PDT,
21:30GMT, 22:30BST, 23:30CEST, 06:30JST+, 03:00a India+).

1. Roll call

Present: Gary Cornelius, Dick Hamilton, Nancy Harrison,
Scott Hudson, Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton,
Norman Walsh

Regrets: Steve Cogorno, Paul Grosso,

Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Mark Johnson, 

2. Accepting the amended minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

Minutes were unanimously accepted.
   
3. Next meeting: 15 June 2005

The committee decided to change the next meeting to 22 June 2005,
at the same time.

4. Review of the agenda.

No additions.

5. Review of open action items

   a. Norm to obtain OASIS namespace naming rules.
      CONTINUE.

   b. Norm to publish a version of the 5.0 spec before the next meeting.
      CONTINUE.

   c. Norm to produce a DocBook 4.5 DTD Working Draft.
      COMPLETED.

6.  New OASIS attendance rules.

Bob reported on the recent email discussion about the new OASIS
attendance rules.  Most TC members did not grasp the
significance of the "lose your voting rights if you
miss 2 out of the last 3" rule.
They expressed support for those who feel the  rule needs
to be changed to be more flexible.  The TC will monitor the
progress of this issue.

7.  DTD 4.5 status.

Norm published a draft 4.5 DTD, but no discussion yet.
He urged TC participants to try it out.

8.  Schema V5 development status.

Norm reports continued progress.

9.  Annotation related RFEs:

      973446 Replace Footnote with Annotation 

This item was closed with no action because during the
discussion of the recently adopted annotation and alt
elements to DocBook v5, the TC decided to leave footnotes
as they are.

       
      522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element 

The TC is closing this item because the new alt element
in v5 provides this feature.

10. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1190435 Add rule tag 

The TC was not clear on the context or use case. 
ACTION:  Bob to request more information from the proposer.

      1190436 Add requirement tag 

The TC was not clear on the context or use case. 
ACTION:  Bob to request more information from the proposer.

      1194196 <qandaset> and <qandadiv> 

There was much discussion about mixing qandaentry and
qandadiv.  Some felt it would create a confusing structure,
and others felt the confusion could be resolved with
stylesheet formatting.  Alternatives such as subentries
and recursive entries were discussed.   Larry suggested that
a real example would help with understanding the use case.
The TC decided to expand the discussion to the docbook
mailing list.

ACTION: Norm to raise this RFE on the docbook mailing list
and ask the proposer to participate.

      1202963 ARTICLE should allow glossary|bibliography in the beginning 

Norm reports that this will be allowed in v5.
The TC decided to take no action for v4.

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)

Norm reports that this will be a feature in v5.

      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)

Norm reports that this will be a feature in v5.

      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)

Norm suggests that the linking features of v5 would
satisfy part of this need, as would the implementation
of clickable image areas in XSLT 2.0.  No action
was taken for DocBook 4.

      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup 

The TC decided to close this request since no new proposal
had been submitted.

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections 
      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 
      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname 
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry

The TC will consider these when a more complete v5 is available.

The committee adjourned at 6:20pm EDT.
---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200504/msg00047.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
