DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 26 January 2005
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 26 January 2005 at
05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
03:30a India+) for 90 minutes.

1. Roll call
   Present: Steve Cogorno, Gary Cornelius, Paul Grosso,
   Nancy Harrison, Scott Hudson, Dick Hamilton,
   Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh 
   
   Absent: Adam Di Carlo, Mark Johnson
   
2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 16 February 2005

   No regrets.

4. Review of the agenda.
   
   Added item 13: description of DocBook V5.

5. Review of open action items

   a. Bob to review minutes to ensure new features are tested.
      COMPLETED.

   b. Norm to make a new CR release with Jirka's xml/docbook.cat patch.
      COMPLETED.

   c. Mike to move the module tests into separate subdirectories,
      one for each module.
      COMPLETED.

   d. Mike to move the template.xml file out of 'tests'
      COMPLETED.

   e. Mike to move the test suite process so that it's a target
      in the tests/Makefile.
      CONTINUED.

   f. Norm to write a concrete summary of the annotation proposal.
      CONTINUED.

   g. Norm to post a summary of pointers to changes and the stuff
      I've written about DocBook V5.0.
      CONTINUED.

   h. Norm to post to the list that 5.0 will probably not have SGML
      support.
      COMPLETED.

   i. Norm to think about how to extend corpauthor
      COMPLETED. Norm suggests DTD V5 as the appropriate place
      to make these kind of changes.


7. Status of DTD version 4.4  [2]
   Add rowheader attribute.
   Add isrn class to biblioid in 4.4?

   Norm published 4.4CR4 on 22 December, and no comments for a month.
   It does include the rowheader attribute, but it won't include
   the isrn class value on biblioid.

   Norm proposed 4.4CR4 as a Committee Specifications.  Approved.

ACTION: Norm to publish it and make the announcement.

8. OASIS webpages status. 
   Latest 4.4 DTD not available, only 4.4CR2. [3]

   Norm reports that he now has an acceptable process for updating
   the webpages. 

ACTION: Norm to update the OASIS webpages.

9. Annotation proposal (Mike).  [4] [5]

    Continued to next meeting.

ACTION: Norm to write a concrete proposal.

10. Task markup as sibling to sections (Mike) [6] [7]
    
    Steve pointed out that the original proposal for task was as
    a sibling of section.  This feature was dropped somewhere
    along the way, and the DTD since 4.3 has had task as a
    block element only.  

    Changing it from a block to a section sibling would be
    backwards incompatible.  Having task as both a block
    element and section sibling could be ambiguous.  One
    suggestion was to add a new tasksection element. There
    was some resistance to creating elements as section
    siblings that are not sections.

    The committee decided that changing task would be better
    discussed for the V5 DTD.

11. Discuss guidelines for accepting or rejecting requests. [8] [9]

    The new charter provides some guidelines.
    Nancy suggested something more specific regarding a request
    that comes from more than one source.  Larry said the wording
    is very important, and the phrase "of benefit to the
    general community" is useful.  

ACTION: Nancy to rewrite the proposal and send it to the docbook
        mailing list for discussion.

13.  DTD V5 news

     Norm has published a draft V5 version of DocBook The
     Definitive Guide.  He has been able to build various
     schema formats, including a DTD.

ACTION: Norm to write a spec of V5 changes.

    Jirka asked about the namespace for DocBook V5.

ACTION: Norm to get OASIS naming rules.

12. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1084491 Add address, orgname, orgdiv to corpauthor, corpcredit, etc. 
              CONTINUED.

      1097183 Allow Task as a sibling of sections 
              Move to V5 list.

      1095721 Allow text in inlineequation 

      Use this for math that can be expressed with existing
      DocBook markup, such as text, emphasis, superscript
      and subscript.  Alt isn't suitable as it is PCDATA only.
      Norm suggests a new element to define an appropriate
      content model.  Larry suggested <mathphrase>.

ACTION: Larry to write a proposal for text math in equation
       elements.
     
------------------------------------------------------------------
Meeting adjourned.

     The following RFEs are awaiting action items

      973446 Replace Footnote with Annotation 
      413389 Enhance METHODNAME and VARNAME (Norm, generic linking)
      431411 RFE 70: add generic linking capability (Norm)
      522552 Add title attribute to <ulink> element (Mike, annotations)
      565637 Associate non-inline image with link (Norm, generic linking)
      574880 Add annotation element (Mike)
      623524 (Re)Consider "choicelist" markup (Mike)

     The following RFEs are identified as V5.0 or later

      974285 Check floatstyle/float attributes
      958393 remove default class value from productname 
      531851 Remove inline person name elements
      532088 Remove RevHistory from qandaentry
- ---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200412/msg00008.html
[2] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200412/msg00043.html
[3] http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/
[4] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00003.html
[5] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200406/msg00005.html
[6] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200501/msg00000.html
[7] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200501/msg00002.html
[8] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00043.html
[9] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook/200411/msg00046.html

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
