DocBook Technical Committee Meeting Minutes: 15 February 2006
=============================================================

The DocBook Technical Committee met on Wednesday, 15 February 2006 at
05:00p EST (02:00p PST, 22:00GMT, 22:00BST, 23:00CEST, 07:00JST+,
03:30a India+) for 60 minutes.

Agenda

1. Roll call

Present: Gary Cornelius, Paul Grosso, Mark Johnson, Dick
Hamilton, Nancy Harrison, Scott Hudson, Gershon Joseph,
Jirka Kosek, Larry Rowland, Bob Stayton, Norman Walsh

Absent: Steve Cogorno, Kay Ethier, Alex Povzner

Observers: Sandi Castle

2. Accepted the minutes[1] of the previous meeting.

3. Next meeting: 15 March 2006

4. Review of the agenda.

Added item 8b.

5. Review of open action items

    a.  The Java language has added java annotations, and Norm
        wondered how these would be marked up in a synopsis.
        The C# language also has annotations, Jirka pointed out.
        ACTION: Norm to investigate this issue some more.
 Jirka will take over this action item.

    b.  Dick to write up a description of how authors
        should handle elements that have been dropped.
 COMPLETED.

    c.  Norm to add the DTD default attribute syntax
        to the V5 RNG grammar.
 COMPLETED.

    d.  Norm to express the default att values in the DTD version.
 COMPLETED.

    e.  Norm to remove the caveat note from the XSD version
        that says it permits more than the RNG Grammar.
 COMPLETED.

    f.  Larry to test token string in both XSD and RNG validation.
 COMPLETED.

    g.  Norm to add multiple imageobject in imageobjectco
        to V5.
 COMPLETED.

    h.  Norm to document new imageobjectco in The Definitive Guide.
 COMPLETED.

    i.  Scott to file an RFE about an issue in sdocbook 1.1.
 COMPLETED.

6.  DocBook namespace: conform to OASIS Artifact Standard
    Identification Scheme for Metadata?

The TC decided that the existing DocBook namespace was
created before the standard was created, and so should
be grandfathered in.

7.  DocBook 4.5 standards progress.

Norm reported that the ballots were sent, the vote
is closed, and the vote was unanimously in favor
of making DocBook 4.5 an OASIS Standard.

ACTION: Norm to pursue moving it to a full OASIS vote.

8.  DocBook 5 issues.

A bug in the XSD version regarding xlink attributes
being required was reported.

ACTION: Norm to fix the XSD generation process.

Larry praised Norm's work on the schemas for the
extensive commenting in them.  Norm explained that
the files use annotations in literate programming
so he can extract information to the book DocBook:
The Definitive Guide.

ACTION: Dick to incorporate his guidelines for
handling deleted elements into the comments and
Definitive Guide.

8b.  Open Reader

Bob has been approached by the Open Reader project,
which is developing an open source Ebook reader
that extends the Open EBook Publishing Structure (OEBPS)
that has not been in active development.  One
new feature would be to be able to read DocBook
natively.

They would like to make Open Reader an OASIS standard.  Bob
suggested to them that someone should join OASIS to drive
the formation of a new TC from the membership.

Several DocBook TC members expressed strong interest.
The contact information is included here in the minutes. [2]
Anyone that is interested can contact Bob for more
information.

9. Review of Requests for Enhancement

    To browse a specific RFE, enter the URL (on one line):

      http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&;
      group_id=21935&atid=384107&aid=XXXX

      1306027  Support for annotations in synopsis elements

Norm has withdrawn his action item.
ACTION: Jirka will think about this item.

      1416903  Front and back cover copy

The TC recognized the need, and suggested a new element
named cover to be included in bookinfo. Its content model
would resemble that of sidebar.  More than one could be
included, and a role attribute could be used to designate
front, back, spine, or other location.  This would be
for V5.

ACTION: Norm to propose a content model for cover.

      1428449  caption should be optional in sdocbook 1.1 informaltable

ACTION: Norm to fix sdocbook and release a new version.

      1351109  Put structfield and structname back to V5.0

Bob suggested that if these programming constructs have
elements, then other constructs in other programming
languages should be considered as well, but that would
lead to too many elements.

Norm suggested that varname with a role attribute met this
need.

Larry: what about the parent-child relationship of structure
and its name and fields?  The current schemas don't have
a structure element with that relationship, so that would
be a new feature.  It should have a new RFE.

The request was denied.

ACTION: Jirka to close out the RFE and respond to the
submittor.

- ---

[1] http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/docbook-tc/200601/msg00007.html

[2] Open Reader information:

www.openreader.org

Especially, read through the first five sections listed
in the Technical area section at:

http://www.openreader.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=category&sectionid=34&id=53&Itemid=157

Bob Stayton
Sagehill Enterprises
DocBook Consulting
bobs@sagehill.net
